---
title: Upgrading Istio
overview: This guide demonstrates how to upgrade the Istio control plane and data plane independently.

order: 70

layout: docs
type: markdown
---
{% include home.html %}

This guide demonstrates how to upgrade the Istio control plane and data plane
independently.

## Overview

This guide describes how to upgrade an existing Istio deployment (including
both control plane and sidecar proxy) to a new release of Istio. The upgrade
process could involve new binaries as well as other changes like configuration
and API schemas. The upgrade process may involve some service downtime.

## Application Setup

In the following steps, we assume that the Istio components are installed and
upgraded in the same namespace ISTIO\_NAMESPACE.

## Tasks

### Control plane upgrade
The Istio control plane components include: CA, Ingress, Pilot, Mixer, and
Sidecar injector. We can use Kubernetes’ rolling update mechanism to upgrade the
control plance components. It can be done by simply applying the new version
yaml file directly, e.g.

```bash
kubectl apply -f istio.yaml (or istio-auth.yaml)
```

For users who have use Helm to generate some customized deployment, they should
use the customized yaml files generated by Helm instead of the standard
installtion yamls.

The rolling update process will upgrade all deployments and configmaps to the
new version. If there is any issue with the new control plane, user can rollback
the changes either by applying the old version yaml files.

### Sidecar upgrade
After control plane is upgraded, user needs to re-inject the new version
of sidecar proxy. There are two cases: Manual injection and Automatic injection.

1. Manual injection:

     If the sidecar automatic injection is not enabled, user can upgrade the
     sidecar manually by running the following command:

     ```bash
     kubectl apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject -i $ISTIO_NAMESPACE -f $ORIGINAL_DEPLOYMENT_YAML)
     ```

     If the sidecar was injected previously with some customized inject config
     files, user needs to change the version tag in the config files to the new
     version and reinject the sidecar as follows:

     ```bash
     kubectl apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject \
          --injectConfigFile inject-config.yaml \
          --filename $ORIGINAL_DEPLOYMENT_YAML)
     ```
2. Automatic injection:

     If the sidecar automatic injection is enabled, user can upgrade the sidecar
     by doing a rolling update for all the pods, so that the new version of
     sidecar will be automatically re-injected

     There are some trick to reload all pods. E.g. There is a [bash script](https://gist.github.com/jmound/ff6fa539385d1a057c82fa9fa739492e)
     which triggers the rolling update by patching the grace termination period.
