content/docs/tutorial/distributed-tracing-with-istio.md, before:

---
title: Distributed tracing with Istio
overview: Add Zipkin distributed tracing system.

weight: 105

---

The Istio dashboard and the log database can show which microservice called which microservice, for example,
`productpage` called `reviews`, and what was the latency of the call. However, it is not enough.
You also want to know what happened during the whole call chain, in your case that `productpage` called `reviews` which
in turn called `ratings`. You want to know the time it took to process each step in the chain and the latency of each
call in the same chain.

To get data about a chain of calls between microservices, you need a
[distributed tracing](https://microservices.io/patterns/observability/distributed-tracing.html) system. Istio comes
out-of-the-box with [Jaeger](https://www.jaegertracing.io).

In this module you examine the traces of your application.

1.  Access Jaeger UI at [http://my-istio-tracing.io](http://my-istio-tracing.io).
    (The `my-istio-logs-tracing.io` URL should be in your /etc/hosts file, you set it
    [previously](/docs/tutorial/run-bookinfo-with-kubernetes/#update-your-etc-hosts-file)).

    {{< image width="80%"
        link="images/jaeger-ui.png"
        caption="Jaeger UI"
        >}}

    Select your `productpage` from the _Service_ drop-down menu, in the _Find Traces_ sidebar on the left,
    in the _Search_ tab. The service of the form `productpage.<your namespace>`.

1.  Examine one of the returned traces on the right:

    {{< image width="80%"
        link="images/jaeger-ui-productpage.png"
        caption="Jaeger UI, productpage trace"
        >}}

    You can see the date and the time when the trace was captured and that the whole chain of calls took 29.46 ms.
    You can see that `productpage` called `details` and that it took 2.33 ms for `details` to return a response.
    For `productpage`, the time that elapsed between the call to `details` and getting a response from it,
    was 3.11 ms.
    `productpage` also called `reviews` which called `ratings`. For `ratings` it took 1.14 ms to return a response,
    for `reviews`, the time that elapsed between the call to `ratings` and getting a response from it, was 2.12 ms.
    For `reviews` it took 13.71 ms to return a response. You can see from the trace that the major contribution to the
    latency of the chain was by `reviews` (13.71 ms out of the whole 29.46 ms).

Note that most of the Istio features are transparent to applications, which means you need to change neither the
applications' code nor their container environment.
Distributed tracing, however, comes with a price. You must change the code of your application to pass a set of HTTP
headers down the chain.
The list of the headers and code snippets in Python and Java are shown in
[Distributed Tracing Overview](/docs/tasks/telemetry/distributed-tracing/overview/#understanding-what-happened).

Commit message:

form -> format, add "Push the button" sentence

content/docs/tutorial/distributed-tracing-with-istio.md, after:

---
title: Distributed tracing with Istio
overview: Add Zipkin distributed tracing system.

weight: 105

---

The Istio dashboard and the log database can show which microservice called which microservice, for example,
`productpage` called `reviews`, and what was the latency of the call. However, it is not enough.
You also want to know what happened during the whole call chain, in your case that `productpage` called `reviews` which
in turn called `ratings`. You want to know the time it took to process each step in the chain and the latency of each
call in the same chain.

To get data about a chain of calls between microservices, you need a
[distributed tracing](https://microservices.io/patterns/observability/distributed-tracing.html) system. Istio comes
out-of-the-box with [Jaeger](https://www.jaegertracing.io).

In this module you examine the traces of your application.

1.  Access Jaeger UI at [http://my-istio-tracing.io](http://my-istio-tracing.io).
    (The `my-istio-logs-tracing.io` URL should be in your /etc/hosts file, you set it
    [previously](/docs/tutorial/run-bookinfo-with-kubernetes/#update-your-etc-hosts-file)).

    {{< image width="80%"
        link="images/jaeger-ui.png"
        caption="Jaeger UI"
        >}}

    Select your `productpage` from the _Service_ drop-down menu, in the _Find Traces_ sidebar on the left,
    in the _Search_ tab. The service name has the `productpage.<your namespace>` format. Push the _Find Traces_ button.

1.  Examine one of the returned traces on the right:

    {{< image width="80%"
        link="images/jaeger-ui-productpage.png"
        caption="Jaeger UI, productpage trace"
        >}}

    You can see the date and the time when the trace was captured and that the whole chain of calls took 29.46 ms.
    You can see that `productpage` called `details` and that it took 2.33 ms for `details` to return a response.
    For `productpage`, the time that elapsed between the call to `details` and getting a response from it,
    was 3.11 ms.
    `productpage` also called `reviews` which called `ratings`. For `ratings` it took 1.14 ms to return a response,
    for `reviews`, the time that elapsed between the call to `ratings` and getting a response from it, was 2.12 ms.
    For `reviews` it took 13.71 ms to return a response. You can see from the trace that the major contribution to the
    latency of the chain was by `reviews` (13.71 ms out of the whole 29.46 ms).

Note that most of the Istio features are transparent to applications, which means you need to change neither the
applications' code nor their container environment.
Distributed tracing, however, comes with a price. You must change the code of your application to pass a set of HTTP
headers down the chain.
The list of the headers and code snippets in Python and Java are shown in
[Distributed Tracing Overview](/docs/tasks/telemetry/distributed-tracing/overview/#understanding-what-happened).
