content/docs/tutorial/fault-injection-with-istio.md, before:

---
title: Fault injection with Istio
overview: Inject an HTTP error and a delay to test your microservices in production.

weight: 110

---

In this module you will perform _fault injection_ on your application. you know that in real life your microservices will
fail, you cannot prevent all possible failures.
What you can do is to verify that your microservices react to failures in a best possible way.
You definitely want to prevent _cascading failures_: a situation when a failure in one microservice causes chain of
failures in other microservices.

To verify that your microservices behave well under failures, first you inject a fault, an HTTP error on the path from one microservice to another. Next, you introduce a delay on a path between two microservices. you inspect how your microservices react to the faults you injected.

1.  Configure a virtual service to inject a fault on requests to _ratings_, for your test user `jason`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/istio/istio/release-1.1/samples/bookinfo/networking/virtual-service-ratings-test-abort.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Access application's webpage, sign in as `jason` and observe that now an error is displayed instead of the reviews.

1.  See that the error appears in the logs of the sidecar proxy of the `reviews` microservice which calls
    _ratings_:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl logs -l app=reviews -c istio-proxy
    {{< /text >}}

    You should see something similar to:

    {{< text plain >}}
    [2019-02-17T03:25:41.941Z] "GET /ratings/0 HTTP/1.1" 500 FI 0 18 0 - "-" "Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_14) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/12.0 Safari/605.1.15" "2d0740d7-64e7-9c83-ae49-67be45457b1a" "ratings:9080" "-" - - 172.21.175.188:9080 172.30.146.72:46062 -
    [2019-02-17T03:25:41.929Z] "GET /reviews/0 HTTP/1.1" 200 - 0 425 18 17 "-" "Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_14) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/12.0 Safari/605.1.15" "2d0740d7-64e7-9c83-ae49-67be45457b1a" "reviews:9080" "127.0.0.1:9080" inbound|9080|http|reviews.tutorial.svc.cluster.local - 172.30.146.72:9080 172.30.109.78:37748 outbound_.9080_.v3_.reviews.tutorial.svc.cluster.local
    {{< /text >}}

    According to the log messages above, a call to _ratings_ returned `500` while _reviews_ managed to handle the error
    and returned `200`. You didn't get _cascading failire_, a failing microservice or a network error did not cause the
    whole chain of calls to fail. The application continued to function, but with reduced functionality, just not
    presenting ratings stars. You experience _graceful degradation_ which is good.

1.  Sign out, sign in as some other user, and see that other users are not effected by the fault.

1.  Remove the virtual service, sign in as `jason` and see that everything works OK.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/istio/istio/release-1.1/samples/bookinfo/networking/virtual-service-ratings-test-abort.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Check another kind of fault injection. Insert a delay of seven seconds on requests to _ratings_:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/istio/istio/master/samples/bookinfo/networking/virtual-service-ratings-test-delay.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Access the application's webpage and sign in as `jason`.
    You should see that now the message "Error fetching product reviews!" is displayed.
    It means that the application cannot handle the delay of seven seconds between _reviews_ and _ratings_.
    If you suspect that such delays may happen in production, you should handle the problem now, proactively,
    before it appears in production.

1.  Check the logs of _productpage_ and see that the delay from _ratings_ propagated through _reviews_ to _productpage_!
    That's not good.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl logs -l app=productpage -c istio-proxy
    {{< /text >}}

    You should see something similar to:

    {{< text plain >}}
    [2019-02-17T03:55:50.384Z] "GET /reviews/0 HTTP/1.1" 500 - 0 3965 2824 2824 "-" "Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_14) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/12.0 Safari/605.1.15" "8acc1b91-e238-9ec3-ab04-32317110c27d" "reviews:9080" "172.30.146.72:9080" outbound|9080|v3|reviews.tutorial.svc.cluster.local - 172.21.5.201:9080 172.30.109.78:48222 -
    [2019-02-17T03:55:47.367Z] "GET /productpage HTTP/1.1" 200 - 0 4209 5843 5843 "10.127.220.66" "Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_14) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/12.0 Safari/605.1.15" "8acc1b91-e238-9ec3-ab04-32317110c27d" "tutorial.bookinfo.com" "127.0.0.1:9080" inbound|9080|http|productpage.tutorial.svc.cluster.local - 172.30.109.78:9080 10.127.220.66:0 -
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Access the Istio dashboard at
    [http://my-istio-dashboard.io/dashboard/db/istio-mesh-dashboard](http://my-istio-dashboard.io/dashboard/db/istio-mesh-dashboard), _Istio Service Dashboard_, the _reviews_ service.

    Notice the response code `500` in _Service Workloads_, _Incoming requests by destination and response code_.

    {{< image width="80%"
        link="images/dashboard-reviews-500.png"
        caption="Istio Service Dashboard"
        >}}

1.  Access Jaeger UI at [http://my-istio-tracing.io](http://my-istio-tracing.io), your _productpage_ service, find the
    trace with errors:

    {{< image width="80%"
        link="images/jaeger-tracing-timeout-errors.png"
        caption="Jaeger UI, timeout errors"
        >}}

    Note that the call to _productpage_ took 5.08 s, and that it took 2.5 s for _reviews_ to return a response.

1.   Examine [_reviews_'s code]({{< github_blob >}}/samples/bookinfo/src/reviews/reviews-application/src/main/java/application/rest/LibertyRestEndpoint.java#L88) that calls _ratings_:

    {{< text java >}}
    String timeout = star_color.equals("black") ? "10000" : "2500";
    cb.property("com.ibm.ws.jaxrs.client.connection.timeout", timeout);
    cb.property("com.ibm.ws.jaxrs.client.receive.timeout", timeout);
    {{< /text >}}

    You can see that the code sets the timeout as 10 seconds for the version with black stars,
    so it should absorb the delay of seven seconds for that version. For the version with red stars the timeout is 2.5
    seconds, exactly the latency you see in the tracing system. In real life you would increase the timeout for the
    version with red stars.

    Go up the call chain and check the delay between _productpage_ and _reviews_.
    Examine
    [_productpage_'s code]({{< github_blob >}}/samples/bookinfo/src/productpage/productpage.py#L296):

    {{< text python >}}
    def getProductReviews(product_id, headers):
    ...
        res = requests.get(url, headers=headers, timeout=3.0)
    {{< /text >}}

    As you can see, the timeout is too low (three seconds), it cannot accommodate the delays of seven seconds, even if
    _reviews_ could accommodate it. In real life you would increase this timeout.
    Also note that you can remove the timeouts from the code to make it cleaner, and
    [handle the timeouts by Istio virtual services](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/request-timeouts).

1.  Set the delay to two seconds and see that the current application can handle it:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/istio/istio/master/samples/bookinfo/networking/virtual-service-ratings-test-delay.yaml | sed 's/7s/2s/g' | kubectl apply -f -
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Access Jaeger UI at [http://my-istio-tracing.io](http://my-istio-tracing.io), your productpage service, check the
    latest trace:

    {{< image width="80%"
        link="images/jaeger-trace-delay-2.png"
        caption="Jaeger UI, two seconds delay"
        >}}

    You can see that now there were no errors and the whole call chain took 2.3 s. It took 2 s for _reviews_ to return
    a response, as you set by fault injection in the previous step.

Commit message:

add Kiali to fault injection

content/docs/tutorial/fault-injection-with-istio.md, after:

---
title: Fault injection with Istio
overview: Inject an HTTP error and a delay to test your microservices in production.

weight: 110

---

In this module you will perform _fault injection_ on your application. you know that in real life your microservices
will fail, you cannot prevent all possible failures.
What you can do is to verify that your microservices react to failures in a best possible way.
You definitely want to prevent _cascading failures_: a situation when a failure in one microservice causes chain of
failures in other microservices.

To verify that your microservices behave well under failures, first you inject a fault, an HTTP error on the path from
one microservice to another. Next, you introduce a delay on a path between two microservices. you inspect how your microservices react to the faults you injected.

1.  Configure a virtual service to inject a fault on requests to _ratings_, for your test user `jason`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/istio/istio/release-1.1/samples/bookinfo/networking/virtual-service-ratings-test-abort.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Access application's webpage, sign in as `jason` and observe that now an error is displayed instead of the reviews.

1.  See that the error appears in the logs of the sidecar proxy of the `reviews` microservice which calls
    _ratings_:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl logs -l app=reviews -c istio-proxy
    {{< /text >}}

    You should see something similar to:

    {{< text plain >}}
    [2019-02-17T03:25:41.941Z] "GET /ratings/0 HTTP/1.1" 500 FI 0 18 0 - "-" "Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_14) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/12.0 Safari/605.1.15" "2d0740d7-64e7-9c83-ae49-67be45457b1a" "ratings:9080" "-" - - 172.21.175.188:9080 172.30.146.72:46062 -
    [2019-02-17T03:25:41.929Z] "GET /reviews/0 HTTP/1.1" 200 - 0 425 18 17 "-" "Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_14) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/12.0 Safari/605.1.15" "2d0740d7-64e7-9c83-ae49-67be45457b1a" "reviews:9080" "127.0.0.1:9080" inbound|9080|http|reviews.tutorial.svc.cluster.local - 172.30.146.72:9080 172.30.109.78:37748 outbound_.9080_.v3_.reviews.tutorial.svc.cluster.local
    {{< /text >}}

    According to the log messages above, a call to _ratings_ returned `500` while _reviews_ managed to handle the error
    and returned `200`. You didn't get _cascading failire_, a failing microservice or a network error did not cause the
    whole chain of calls to fail. The application continued to function, but with reduced functionality, just not
    presenting ratings stars. You experience _graceful degradation_ which is good.

1.  Check your Kiali console,
    [http://my-kiali.io/kiali/console](http://my-kiali.io/kiali/console), the graph of your namespace.

    Note that the _reviews_ microservice became orange and the edges to _ratings_ became orange as well. Note the
    red portion of the stacked bar chart on the right, it designates the proportion of `5xx` errors. Notice the
    percentage of errors in the `HTTP Traffic` section on the right.

    {{< image width="80%"
        link="images/kiali-fault-injection.png"
        caption="Kiali Graph Tab with fault injection"
        >}}

1.  Sign out, sign in as some other user, and see that other users are not effected by the fault.

1.  Remove the virtual service, sign in as `jason` and see that everything works OK.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/istio/istio/release-1.1/samples/bookinfo/networking/virtual-service-ratings-test-abort.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Check another kind of fault injection. Insert a delay of seven seconds on requests to _ratings_:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/istio/istio/master/samples/bookinfo/networking/virtual-service-ratings-test-delay.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Access the application's webpage and sign in as `jason`.
    You should see that now the message "Error fetching product reviews!" is displayed.
    It means that the application cannot handle the delay of seven seconds between _reviews_ and _ratings_.
    If you suspect that such delays may happen in production, you should handle the problem now, proactively,
    before it appears in production.

1.  Check the logs of _productpage_ and see that the delay from _ratings_ propagated through _reviews_ to _productpage_!
    That's not good.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl logs -l app=productpage -c istio-proxy
    {{< /text >}}

    You should see something similar to:

    {{< text plain >}}
    [2019-02-17T03:55:50.384Z] "GET /reviews/0 HTTP/1.1" 500 - 0 3965 2824 2824 "-" "Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_14) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/12.0 Safari/605.1.15" "8acc1b91-e238-9ec3-ab04-32317110c27d" "reviews:9080" "172.30.146.72:9080" outbound|9080|v3|reviews.tutorial.svc.cluster.local - 172.21.5.201:9080 172.30.109.78:48222 -
    [2019-02-17T03:55:47.367Z] "GET /productpage HTTP/1.1" 200 - 0 4209 5843 5843 "10.127.220.66" "Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_14) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/12.0 Safari/605.1.15" "8acc1b91-e238-9ec3-ab04-32317110c27d" "tutorial.bookinfo.com" "127.0.0.1:9080" inbound|9080|http|productpage.tutorial.svc.cluster.local - 172.30.109.78:9080 10.127.220.66:0 -
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Check your Kiali console,
        [http://my-kiali.io/kiali/console](http://my-kiali.io/kiali/console), the graph of your namespace.

    This time the situation is more serious. The _reviews_ microservice turned red, the _productpage_ microservice
    turned orange, and the percentage of the errors in the _HTTP Traffic_ section on the right increased.

    {{< image width="80%"
        link="images/kiali-delay-injection.png"
        caption="Kiali Graph Tab with delay injection"
    >}}

1.  Access the Istio dashboard at
    [http://my-istio-dashboard.io/dashboard/db/istio-mesh-dashboard](http://my-istio-dashboard.io/dashboard/db/istio-mesh-dashboard), _Istio Service Dashboard_, the _reviews_ service.

    Notice the response code `500` in _Service Workloads_, _Incoming requests by destination and response code_.

    {{< image width="80%"
        link="images/dashboard-reviews-500.png"
        caption="Istio Service Dashboard"
        >}}

1.  Access Jaeger UI at [http://my-istio-tracing.io](http://my-istio-tracing.io), your _productpage_ service, find the
    trace with errors:

    {{< image width="80%"
        link="images/jaeger-tracing-timeout-errors.png"
        caption="Jaeger UI, timeout errors"
        >}}

    Note that the call to _productpage_ took 5.08 s, and that it took 2.5 s for _reviews_ to return a response.

1.   Examine [_reviews_'s code]({{< github_blob >}}/samples/bookinfo/src/reviews/reviews-application/src/main/java/application/rest/LibertyRestEndpoint.java#L88) that calls _ratings_:

    {{< text java >}}
    String timeout = star_color.equals("black") ? "10000" : "2500";
    cb.property("com.ibm.ws.jaxrs.client.connection.timeout", timeout);
    cb.property("com.ibm.ws.jaxrs.client.receive.timeout", timeout);
    {{< /text >}}

    You can see that the code sets the timeout as 10 seconds for the version with black stars,
    so it should absorb the delay of seven seconds for that version. For the version with red stars the timeout is 2.5
    seconds, exactly the latency you see in the tracing system. In real life you would increase the timeout for the
    version with red stars.

    Go up the call chain and check the delay between _productpage_ and _reviews_.
    Examine
    [_productpage_'s code]({{< github_blob >}}/samples/bookinfo/src/productpage/productpage.py#L296):

    {{< text python >}}
    def getProductReviews(product_id, headers):
    ...
        res = requests.get(url, headers=headers, timeout=3.0)
    {{< /text >}}

    As you can see, the timeout is too low (three seconds), it cannot accommodate the delays of seven seconds, even if
    _reviews_ could accommodate it. In real life you would increase this timeout.
    Also note that you can remove the timeouts from the code to make it cleaner, and
    [handle the timeouts by Istio virtual services](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/request-timeouts).

1.  Set the delay to two seconds and see that the current application can handle it:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/istio/istio/master/samples/bookinfo/networking/virtual-service-ratings-test-delay.yaml | sed 's/7s/2s/g' | kubectl apply -f -
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Access Jaeger UI at [http://my-istio-tracing.io](http://my-istio-tracing.io), your productpage service, check the
    latest trace:

    {{< image width="80%"
        link="images/jaeger-trace-delay-2.png"
        caption="Jaeger UI, two seconds delay"
        >}}

    You can see that now there were no errors and the whole call chain took 2.3 s. It took 2 s for _reviews_ to return
    a response, as you set by fault injection in the previous step.
