content/docs/examples/multicluster/split-horizon-eds/index.md, before:

---
title: Cluster-Aware Service Routing
description: Leveraging Istio's Split-horizon EDS to create a multicluster mesh.
weight: 85
keywords: [kubernetes,multicluster]
---

This example shows how to configure a multicluster mesh with a
[single control plane topology](/docs/concepts/multicluster-deployments/#single-control-plane-topology)
and using Istio's _Split-horizon EDS (Endpoints Discovery Service)_ feature (introduced in Istio 1.1) to
route service requests to other clusters via their ingress gateway.
Split-horizon EDS enables Istio to route requests to different endpoints, depending on the location of the request source.

By following the instructions in this example, you will setup a two cluster mesh as shown in the following diagram:

  {{< image width="80%" ratio="36.01%"
  link="./diagram.svg"
  caption="Single Istio control plane topology spanning multiple Kubernetes clusters with Split-horizon EDS configured" >}}

The primary cluster, `cluster1`, runs the full set of Istio control plane components while `cluster2` only runs Istio Citadel,
Sidecar Injector, and Ingress gateway.
No VPN connectivity nor direct network access between workloads in different clusters is required.

## Before you begin

In addition to the prerequisites for installing Istio, the following is required for this example:

* Two Kubernetes clusters (referred to as `cluster1` and `cluster2`).

    {{< warning >}}
    The Kubernetes API server of `cluster2` MUST be accessible from `cluster1` in order to run this configuration.
    {{< /warning >}}

* The `kubectl` command is used to access both the `cluster1` and `cluster2` clusters with the `--context` flag.
  Use the following command to list your contexts:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl config get-contexts
    CURRENT   NAME       CLUSTER    AUTHINFO       NAMESPACE
    *         cluster1   cluster1   user@foo.com   default
              cluster2   cluster2   user@foo.com   default
    {{< /text >}}

* Export the following environment variables with the context names of your configuration:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export CTX_CLUSTER1=<KUBECONFIG_CONTEXT_NAME_FOR_CLUSTER_1>
    $ export CTX_CLUSTER2=<KUBECONFIG_CONTEXT_NAME_FOR_CLUSTER_2>
    {{< /text >}}

## Example multicluster setup

In this example you will install Istio with mutual TLS enabled for both the control plane and application pods.
For the shared root CA, you create a `cacerts` secret on both `cluster1` and `cluster2` clusters using the same Istio
certificate from the Istio samples directory.

The instructions, below, also set up `cluster2` with a selector-less service and an endpoint for `istio-pilot.istio-system`
that has the address of `cluster1` Istio ingress gateway.
This will be used to access pilot on `cluster1` securely using the ingress gateway without mutual TLS termination.

### Setup cluster 1 (primary)

1. Use Helm to create the Istio deployment YAML for `cluster1`:

    {{< warning >}}
    If you're not sure if your `helm` dependencies are up to date, update them using the
    command shown in [Helm installation steps](/docs/setup/kubernetes/helm-install/#installation-steps)
    before running the following command.
    {{< /warning >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ helm template --name=istio --namespace=istio-system \
    --set global.mtls.enabled=true \
    --set security.selfSigned=false \
    --set global.controlPlaneSecurityEnabled=true \
    --set global.meshExpansion.enabled=true \
    --set global.meshNetworks.network2.endpoints[0].fromRegistry=n2-k8s-config \
    --set global.meshNetworks.network2.gateways[0].address=0.0.0.0 \
    --set global.meshNetworks.network2.gateways[0].port=443 \
    install/kubernetes/helm/istio > istio-auth.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< warning >}}
    Note that the gateway address is set to `0.0.0.0`. This is a temporary placeholder value that will
    later be updated to the value of the public IP of `cluster2`'s gateway after it is deployed
    in the following section.
    {{< /warning >}}

1. Deploy Istio to `cluster1`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 ns istio-system
    $ kubectl create --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 secret generic cacerts -n istio-system --from-file=samples/certs/ca-cert.pem --from-file=samples/certs/ca-key.pem --from-file=samples/certs/root-cert.pem --from-file=samples/certs/cert-chain.pem
    $ for i in install/kubernetes/helm/istio-init/files/crd*yaml; do kubectl apply --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -f $i; done
    $ kubectl create --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -f istio-auth.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

    Wait for the Istio pods on `cluster1` to become ready:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get pods --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -n istio-system
    NAME                                      READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    istio-citadel-5b9d878756-bwnxx            1/1       Running   0          2m
    istio-galley-6f7594c9f4-7s9db             1/1       Running   0          2m
    istio-ingressgateway-c6f9544b-hf7cm       1/1       Running   0          2m
    istio-pilot-55f7f6fd57-5tb22              2/2       Running   0          2m
    istio-policy-cd65dc85-4xwlw               2/2       Running   3          2m
    istio-sidecar-injector-846f649c7b-w2kgp   1/1       Running   0          2m
    istio-telemetry-67ffd9489-zncv7           2/2       Running   2          2m
    prometheus-89bc5668c-mz4hl                1/1       Running   0          2m
    {{< /text >}}

1. Create an ingress gateway to access service(s) in `cluster2`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
    kind: Gateway
    metadata:
      name: cluster-aware-gateway
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      selector:
        istio: ingressgateway
      servers:
      - port:
          number: 443
          name: tls
          protocol: TLS
        tls:
          mode: AUTO_PASSTHROUGH
        hosts:
        - "*.local"
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

    This `Gateway` configures 443 port to pass incoming traffic through to the target service specified in a
    request's SNI header, for SNI values of the _local_ top-level domain
    (i.e., the [Kubernetes DNS domain](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/dns-pod-service/)).
    Mutual TLS connections will be used all the way from the source to the destination sidecar.

    Although applied to `cluster1`, this Gateway instance will also affect `cluster2` because both clusters communicate with the
    same Pilot.

### Setup cluster 2

1. Export the `cluster1` gateway address:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export LOCAL_GW_ADDR=$(kubectl get --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 svc --selector=app=istio-ingressgateway \
        -n istio-system -o jsonpath="{.items[0].status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}")
    {{< /text >}}

    This command sets the value to the gateway's public IP, but note that you can set it to
    a DNS name instead, if you have one.

1. Use Helm to create the Istio deployment YAML for `cluster2`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ helm template --name istio-remote --namespace=istio-system \
    --values install/kubernetes/helm/istio/values-istio-remote.yaml \
    --set global.mtls.enabled=true \
    --set gateways.enabled=true \
    --set security.selfSigned=false \
    --set global.controlPlaneSecurityEnabled=true \
    --set global.createRemoteSvcEndpoints=true \
    --set global.remotePilotCreateSvcEndpoint=true \
    --set global.remotePilotAddress=${LOCAL_GW_ADDR} \
    --set global.remotePolicyAddress=${LOCAL_GW_ADDR} \
    --set global.remoteTelemetryAddress=${LOCAL_GW_ADDR} \
    --set gateways.istio-ingressgateway.env.ISTIO_META_NETWORK="network2" \
    --set global.network="network2" \
    install/kubernetes/helm/istio > istio-remote-auth.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1. Deploy Istio to `cluster2`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 ns istio-system
    $ kubectl create --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 secret generic cacerts -n istio-system --from-file=samples/certs/ca-cert.pem --from-file=samples/certs/ca-key.pem --from-file=samples/certs/root-cert.pem --from-file=samples/certs/cert-chain.pem
    $ kubectl create --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 -f istio-remote-auth.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

    Wait for the Istio pods on `cluster2`, except for `istio-ingressgateway`, to become ready:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get pods --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 -n istio-system -l istio!=ingressgateway
    NAME                                      READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    istio-citadel-958c4b596-kpmj4             1/1       Running   0          40s
    istio-sidecar-injector-77599f75f6-tnj7s   1/1       Running   0          39s
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< warning >}}
    `istio-ingressgateway` will not be ready until you configure the Istio control plane in `cluster1` to watch
    `cluster2`. You do it in the next section.
    {{< /warning >}}

1.  Determine the ingress IP and port for `cluster2`.

    1.   Set the current context of `kubectl` to `CTX_CLUSTER2`

        {{< text bash >}}
        $ export ORIGINAL_CONTEXT=$(kubectl config current-context)
        $ kubectl config use-context $CTX_CLUSTER2
        {{< /text >}}

    1.   Follow the instructions in
        [Determining the ingress IP and ports](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/#determining-the-ingress-ip-and-ports),
        to set the `INGRESS_HOST` and `SECURE_INGRESS_PORT` environment variables.

    1.  Restore the previous `kubectl` context:

        {{< text bash >}}
        $ kubectl config use-context $ORIGINAL_CONTEXT
        $ unset ORIGINAL_CONTEXT
        {{< /text >}}

    1.  Print the values of `INGRESS_HOST` and `SECURE_INGRESS_PORT`:

        {{< text bash >}}
        $ echo ingress host = $INGRESS_HOST
        $ echo ingress port = $SECURE_INGRESS_PORT
        {{< /text >}}

1.  Update the gateway address in the mesh network configuration. Edit the `istio` `ConfigMap`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl edit cm -n istio-system --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 istio
    {{< /text >}}

    Update the gateway's address and port of `network2` to reflect the `cluster2` ingress host and port,
    respectively, then save and quit.

    Once saved, Pilot will automatically read the updated network configuration.

1. Prepare environment variables for building the `n2-k8s-config` file for the service account `istio-multi`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ CLUSTER_NAME=$(kubectl --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 config view --minify=true -o "jsonpath={.clusters[].name}")
    $ SERVER=$(kubectl --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 config view --minify=true -o "jsonpath={.clusters[].cluster.server}")
    $ SECRET_NAME=$(kubectl --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 get sa istio-multi -n istio-system -o jsonpath='{.secrets[].name}')
    $ CA_DATA=$(kubectl get --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 secret ${SECRET_NAME} -n istio-system -o "jsonpath={.data['ca\.crt']}")
    $ TOKEN=$(kubectl get --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 secret ${SECRET_NAME} -n istio-system -o "jsonpath={.data['token']}" | base64 --decode)
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< idea >}}
    An alternative to `base64 --decode` is `openssl enc -d -base64 -A` on many systems.
    {{< /idea >}}

1. Create the `n2-k8s-config` file in the working directory:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat <<EOF > n2-k8s-config
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Config
    clusters:
      - cluster:
          certificate-authority-data: ${CA_DATA}
          server: ${SERVER}
        name: ${CLUSTER_NAME}
    contexts:
      - context:
          cluster: ${CLUSTER_NAME}
          user: ${CLUSTER_NAME}
        name: ${CLUSTER_NAME}
    current-context: ${CLUSTER_NAME}
    users:
      - name: ${CLUSTER_NAME}
        user:
          token: ${TOKEN}
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

### Start watching cluster 2

Execute the following commands to add and label the secret of the `cluster2` Kubernetes. After executing these commands Istio Pilot on `cluster1`
will begin watching `cluster2` for services and instances, just as it does for `cluster1`.

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl create --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 secret generic n2-k8s-secret --from-file n2-k8s-config -n istio-system
$ kubectl label --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 secret n2-k8s-secret istio/multiCluster=true -n istio-system
{{< /text >}}

Now that you have your `cluster1` and `cluster2` clusters set up, you can deploy an example service.

## Example service

In this demo you will see how traffic to a service can be distributed across the two clusters.
As shown in the diagram, above, you will deploy two instances of the `helloworld` service, one on `cluster1` and one on `cluster2`.
The difference between the two instances is the version of their `helloworld` image.

### Deploy helloworld v2 in cluster 2

1. Create a `sample` namespace with a sidecar auto-injection label:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 ns sample
    $ kubectl label --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 namespace sample istio-injection=enabled
    {{< /text >}}

1. Deploy `helloworld v2`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 -f samples/helloworld/helloworld.yaml -l app=helloworld -n sample
    $ kubectl create --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 -f samples/helloworld/helloworld.yaml -l version=v2 -n sample
    {{< /text >}}

1. Confirm `helloworld v2` is running:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get po --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 -n sample
    NAME                             READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    helloworld-v2-7dd57c44c4-f56gq   2/2       Running   0          35s
    {{< /text >}}

### Deploy helloworld v1 in cluster 1

1. Create a `sample` namespace with a sidecar auto-injection label:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 ns sample
    $ kubectl label --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 namespace sample istio-injection=enabled
    {{< /text >}}

1. Deploy `helloworld v1`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -f samples/helloworld/helloworld.yaml -l app=helloworld -n sample
    $ kubectl create --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -f samples/helloworld/helloworld.yaml -l version=v1 -n sample
    {{< /text >}}

1. Confirm `helloworld v1` is running:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get po --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -n sample
    NAME                            READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    helloworld-v1-d4557d97b-pv2hr   2/2       Running   0          40s
    {{< /text >}}

### Split-horizon EDS in action

We will call the `helloworld.sample` service from another in-mesh `sleep` service.

1. Deploy the `sleep` service:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -f samples/sleep/sleep.yaml -n sample
    {{< /text >}}

1. Call the `helloworld.sample` service several times:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -it -n sample -c sleep $(kubectl get pod --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -n sample -l app=sleep -o jsonpath={.items[0].metadata.name}) -- curl helloworld.sample:5000/hello
    {{< /text >}}

If set up correctly, the traffic to the `helloworld.sample` service will be distributed between instances on `cluster1` and `cluster2`
resulting in responses with either `v1` or `v2` in the body:

{{< text sh >}}
Hello version: v2, instance: helloworld-v2-758dd55874-6x4t8
{{< /text >}}

{{< text sh >}}
Hello version: v1, instance: helloworld-v1-86f77cd7bd-cpxhv
{{< /text >}}

You can also verify the IP addresses used to access the endpoints by printing the log of the sleep's `istio-proxy` container.

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl logs --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -n sample $(kubectl get pod --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -n sample -l app=sleep -o jsonpath={.items[0].metadata.name}) istio-proxy
[2018-11-25T12:37:52.077Z] "GET /hello HTTP/1.1" 200 - 0 60 190 189 "-" "curl/7.60.0" "6e096efe-f550-4dfa-8c8c-ba164baf4679" "helloworld.sample:5000" "192.23.120.32:15443" outbound|5000||helloworld.sample.svc.cluster.local - 10.20.194.146:5000 10.10.0.89:59496 -
[2018-11-25T12:38:06.745Z] "GET /hello HTTP/1.1" 200 - 0 60 171 170 "-" "curl/7.60.0" "6f93c9cc-d32a-4878-b56a-086a740045d2" "helloworld.sample:5000" "10.10.0.90:5000" outbound|5000||helloworld.sample.svc.cluster.local - 10.20.194.146:5000 10.10.0.89:59646 -
{{< /text >}}

The gateway IP, `192.23.120.32:15443`, of `cluster2` is logged when v2 was called and the instance IP, `10.10.0.90:5000`, of `cluster1` is logged when v1 was called.

## Cleanup

Execute the following commands to clean up the demo services __and__ the Istio components.

Cleanup the `cluster2` cluster:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl delete --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 -f istio-remote-auth.yaml
$ kubectl delete --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 ns istio-system
$ kubectl delete --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 ns sample
$ unset CTX_CLUSTER2 CLUSTER_NAME SERVER SECRET_NAME CA_DATA TOKEN INGRESS_HOST SECURE_INGRESS_PORT INGRESS_PORT
$ rm istio-remote-auth.yaml
{{< /text >}}

Cleanup the `cluster1` cluster:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl delete --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -f istio-auth.yaml
$ kubectl delete --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 ns istio-system
$ for i in install/kubernetes/helm/istio-init/files/crd*yaml; do kubectl delete --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -f $i; done
$ kubectl delete --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 ns sample
$ unset CTX_CLUSTER1
$ rm istio-auth.yaml n2-k8s-config
{{< /text >}}

Commit message:

add waiting for istio-ingressgateway to become ready after setting watching cluster2

content/docs/examples/multicluster/split-horizon-eds/index.md, after:

---
title: Cluster-Aware Service Routing
description: Leveraging Istio's Split-horizon EDS to create a multicluster mesh.
weight: 85
keywords: [kubernetes,multicluster]
---

This example shows how to configure a multicluster mesh with a
[single control plane topology](/docs/concepts/multicluster-deployments/#single-control-plane-topology)
and using Istio's _Split-horizon EDS (Endpoints Discovery Service)_ feature (introduced in Istio 1.1) to
route service requests to other clusters via their ingress gateway.
Split-horizon EDS enables Istio to route requests to different endpoints, depending on the location of the request source.

By following the instructions in this example, you will setup a two cluster mesh as shown in the following diagram:

  {{< image width="80%" ratio="36.01%"
  link="./diagram.svg"
  caption="Single Istio control plane topology spanning multiple Kubernetes clusters with Split-horizon EDS configured" >}}

The primary cluster, `cluster1`, runs the full set of Istio control plane components while `cluster2` only runs Istio Citadel,
Sidecar Injector, and Ingress gateway.
No VPN connectivity nor direct network access between workloads in different clusters is required.

## Before you begin

In addition to the prerequisites for installing Istio, the following is required for this example:

* Two Kubernetes clusters (referred to as `cluster1` and `cluster2`).

    {{< warning >}}
    The Kubernetes API server of `cluster2` MUST be accessible from `cluster1` in order to run this configuration.
    {{< /warning >}}

* The `kubectl` command is used to access both the `cluster1` and `cluster2` clusters with the `--context` flag.
  Use the following command to list your contexts:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl config get-contexts
    CURRENT   NAME       CLUSTER    AUTHINFO       NAMESPACE
    *         cluster1   cluster1   user@foo.com   default
              cluster2   cluster2   user@foo.com   default
    {{< /text >}}

* Export the following environment variables with the context names of your configuration:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export CTX_CLUSTER1=<KUBECONFIG_CONTEXT_NAME_FOR_CLUSTER_1>
    $ export CTX_CLUSTER2=<KUBECONFIG_CONTEXT_NAME_FOR_CLUSTER_2>
    {{< /text >}}

## Example multicluster setup

In this example you will install Istio with mutual TLS enabled for both the control plane and application pods.
For the shared root CA, you create a `cacerts` secret on both `cluster1` and `cluster2` clusters using the same Istio
certificate from the Istio samples directory.

The instructions, below, also set up `cluster2` with a selector-less service and an endpoint for `istio-pilot.istio-system`
that has the address of `cluster1` Istio ingress gateway.
This will be used to access pilot on `cluster1` securely using the ingress gateway without mutual TLS termination.

### Setup cluster 1 (primary)

1. Use Helm to create the Istio deployment YAML for `cluster1`:

    {{< warning >}}
    If you're not sure if your `helm` dependencies are up to date, update them using the
    command shown in [Helm installation steps](/docs/setup/kubernetes/helm-install/#installation-steps)
    before running the following command.
    {{< /warning >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ helm template --name=istio --namespace=istio-system \
    --set global.mtls.enabled=true \
    --set security.selfSigned=false \
    --set global.controlPlaneSecurityEnabled=true \
    --set global.meshExpansion.enabled=true \
    --set global.meshNetworks.network2.endpoints[0].fromRegistry=n2-k8s-config \
    --set global.meshNetworks.network2.gateways[0].address=0.0.0.0 \
    --set global.meshNetworks.network2.gateways[0].port=443 \
    install/kubernetes/helm/istio > istio-auth.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< warning >}}
    Note that the gateway address is set to `0.0.0.0`. This is a temporary placeholder value that will
    later be updated to the value of the public IP of `cluster2`'s gateway after it is deployed
    in the following section.
    {{< /warning >}}

1. Deploy Istio to `cluster1`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 ns istio-system
    $ kubectl create --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 secret generic cacerts -n istio-system --from-file=samples/certs/ca-cert.pem --from-file=samples/certs/ca-key.pem --from-file=samples/certs/root-cert.pem --from-file=samples/certs/cert-chain.pem
    $ for i in install/kubernetes/helm/istio-init/files/crd*yaml; do kubectl apply --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -f $i; done
    $ kubectl create --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -f istio-auth.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

    Wait for the Istio pods on `cluster1` to become ready:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get pods --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -n istio-system
    NAME                                      READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    istio-citadel-5b9d878756-bwnxx            1/1       Running   0          2m
    istio-galley-6f7594c9f4-7s9db             1/1       Running   0          2m
    istio-ingressgateway-c6f9544b-hf7cm       1/1       Running   0          2m
    istio-pilot-55f7f6fd57-5tb22              2/2       Running   0          2m
    istio-policy-cd65dc85-4xwlw               2/2       Running   3          2m
    istio-sidecar-injector-846f649c7b-w2kgp   1/1       Running   0          2m
    istio-telemetry-67ffd9489-zncv7           2/2       Running   2          2m
    prometheus-89bc5668c-mz4hl                1/1       Running   0          2m
    {{< /text >}}

1. Create an ingress gateway to access service(s) in `cluster2`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
    kind: Gateway
    metadata:
      name: cluster-aware-gateway
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      selector:
        istio: ingressgateway
      servers:
      - port:
          number: 443
          name: tls
          protocol: TLS
        tls:
          mode: AUTO_PASSTHROUGH
        hosts:
        - "*.local"
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

    This `Gateway` configures 443 port to pass incoming traffic through to the target service specified in a
    request's SNI header, for SNI values of the _local_ top-level domain
    (i.e., the [Kubernetes DNS domain](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/dns-pod-service/)).
    Mutual TLS connections will be used all the way from the source to the destination sidecar.

    Although applied to `cluster1`, this Gateway instance will also affect `cluster2` because both clusters communicate with the
    same Pilot.

### Setup cluster 2

1. Export the `cluster1` gateway address:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export LOCAL_GW_ADDR=$(kubectl get --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 svc --selector=app=istio-ingressgateway \
        -n istio-system -o jsonpath="{.items[0].status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}")
    {{< /text >}}

    This command sets the value to the gateway's public IP, but note that you can set it to
    a DNS name instead, if you have one.

1. Use Helm to create the Istio deployment YAML for `cluster2`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ helm template --name istio-remote --namespace=istio-system \
    --values install/kubernetes/helm/istio/values-istio-remote.yaml \
    --set global.mtls.enabled=true \
    --set gateways.enabled=true \
    --set security.selfSigned=false \
    --set global.controlPlaneSecurityEnabled=true \
    --set global.createRemoteSvcEndpoints=true \
    --set global.remotePilotCreateSvcEndpoint=true \
    --set global.remotePilotAddress=${LOCAL_GW_ADDR} \
    --set global.remotePolicyAddress=${LOCAL_GW_ADDR} \
    --set global.remoteTelemetryAddress=${LOCAL_GW_ADDR} \
    --set gateways.istio-ingressgateway.env.ISTIO_META_NETWORK="network2" \
    --set global.network="network2" \
    install/kubernetes/helm/istio > istio-remote-auth.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1. Deploy Istio to `cluster2`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 ns istio-system
    $ kubectl create --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 secret generic cacerts -n istio-system --from-file=samples/certs/ca-cert.pem --from-file=samples/certs/ca-key.pem --from-file=samples/certs/root-cert.pem --from-file=samples/certs/cert-chain.pem
    $ kubectl create --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 -f istio-remote-auth.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

    Wait for the Istio pods on `cluster2`, except for `istio-ingressgateway`, to become ready:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get pods --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 -n istio-system -l istio!=ingressgateway
    NAME                                      READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    istio-citadel-958c4b596-kpmj4             1/1       Running   0          40s
    istio-sidecar-injector-77599f75f6-tnj7s   1/1       Running   0          39s
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< warning >}}
    `istio-ingressgateway` will not be ready until you configure the Istio control plane in `cluster1` to watch
    `cluster2`. You do it in the next section.
    {{< /warning >}}

1.  Determine the ingress IP and port for `cluster2`.

    1.   Set the current context of `kubectl` to `CTX_CLUSTER2`

        {{< text bash >}}
        $ export ORIGINAL_CONTEXT=$(kubectl config current-context)
        $ kubectl config use-context $CTX_CLUSTER2
        {{< /text >}}

    1.   Follow the instructions in
        [Determining the ingress IP and ports](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/#determining-the-ingress-ip-and-ports),
        to set the `INGRESS_HOST` and `SECURE_INGRESS_PORT` environment variables.

    1.  Restore the previous `kubectl` context:

        {{< text bash >}}
        $ kubectl config use-context $ORIGINAL_CONTEXT
        $ unset ORIGINAL_CONTEXT
        {{< /text >}}

    1.  Print the values of `INGRESS_HOST` and `SECURE_INGRESS_PORT`:

        {{< text bash >}}
        $ echo ingress host = $INGRESS_HOST
        $ echo ingress port = $SECURE_INGRESS_PORT
        {{< /text >}}

1.  Update the gateway address in the mesh network configuration. Edit the `istio` `ConfigMap`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl edit cm -n istio-system --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 istio
    {{< /text >}}

    Update the gateway's address and port of `network2` to reflect the `cluster2` ingress host and port,
    respectively, then save and quit.

    Once saved, Pilot will automatically read the updated network configuration.

1. Prepare environment variables for building the `n2-k8s-config` file for the service account `istio-multi`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ CLUSTER_NAME=$(kubectl --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 config view --minify=true -o "jsonpath={.clusters[].name}")
    $ SERVER=$(kubectl --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 config view --minify=true -o "jsonpath={.clusters[].cluster.server}")
    $ SECRET_NAME=$(kubectl --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 get sa istio-multi -n istio-system -o jsonpath='{.secrets[].name}')
    $ CA_DATA=$(kubectl get --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 secret ${SECRET_NAME} -n istio-system -o "jsonpath={.data['ca\.crt']}")
    $ TOKEN=$(kubectl get --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 secret ${SECRET_NAME} -n istio-system -o "jsonpath={.data['token']}" | base64 --decode)
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< idea >}}
    An alternative to `base64 --decode` is `openssl enc -d -base64 -A` on many systems.
    {{< /idea >}}

1. Create the `n2-k8s-config` file in the working directory:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat <<EOF > n2-k8s-config
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Config
    clusters:
      - cluster:
          certificate-authority-data: ${CA_DATA}
          server: ${SERVER}
        name: ${CLUSTER_NAME}
    contexts:
      - context:
          cluster: ${CLUSTER_NAME}
          user: ${CLUSTER_NAME}
        name: ${CLUSTER_NAME}
    current-context: ${CLUSTER_NAME}
    users:
      - name: ${CLUSTER_NAME}
        user:
          token: ${TOKEN}
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

### Start watching cluster 2

1.  Execute the following commands to add and label the secret of the `cluster2` Kubernetes.
    After executing these commands Istio Pilot on `cluster1` will begin watching `cluster2` for services and instances,
    just as it does for `cluster1`.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 secret generic n2-k8s-secret --from-file n2-k8s-config -n istio-system
    $ kubectl label --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 secret n2-k8s-secret istio/multiCluster=true -n istio-system
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Wait for `istio-ingressgateway` to become ready:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get pods --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 -n istio-system -l istio=ingressgateway
    NAME                                    READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    istio-ingressgateway-5c667f4f84-bscff   1/1       Running   0          16m
    {{< /text >}}

Now that you have your `cluster1` and `cluster2` clusters set up, you can deploy an example service.

## Example service

In this demo you will see how traffic to a service can be distributed across the two clusters.
As shown in the diagram, above, you will deploy two instances of the `helloworld` service, one on `cluster1` and one on `cluster2`.
The difference between the two instances is the version of their `helloworld` image.

### Deploy helloworld v2 in cluster 2

1. Create a `sample` namespace with a sidecar auto-injection label:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 ns sample
    $ kubectl label --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 namespace sample istio-injection=enabled
    {{< /text >}}

1. Deploy `helloworld v2`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 -f samples/helloworld/helloworld.yaml -l app=helloworld -n sample
    $ kubectl create --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 -f samples/helloworld/helloworld.yaml -l version=v2 -n sample
    {{< /text >}}

1. Confirm `helloworld v2` is running:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get po --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 -n sample
    NAME                             READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    helloworld-v2-7dd57c44c4-f56gq   2/2       Running   0          35s
    {{< /text >}}

### Deploy helloworld v1 in cluster 1

1. Create a `sample` namespace with a sidecar auto-injection label:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 ns sample
    $ kubectl label --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 namespace sample istio-injection=enabled
    {{< /text >}}

1. Deploy `helloworld v1`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -f samples/helloworld/helloworld.yaml -l app=helloworld -n sample
    $ kubectl create --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -f samples/helloworld/helloworld.yaml -l version=v1 -n sample
    {{< /text >}}

1. Confirm `helloworld v1` is running:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get po --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -n sample
    NAME                            READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    helloworld-v1-d4557d97b-pv2hr   2/2       Running   0          40s
    {{< /text >}}

### Split-horizon EDS in action

We will call the `helloworld.sample` service from another in-mesh `sleep` service.

1. Deploy the `sleep` service:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -f samples/sleep/sleep.yaml -n sample
    {{< /text >}}

1. Call the `helloworld.sample` service several times:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -it -n sample -c sleep $(kubectl get pod --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -n sample -l app=sleep -o jsonpath={.items[0].metadata.name}) -- curl helloworld.sample:5000/hello
    {{< /text >}}

If set up correctly, the traffic to the `helloworld.sample` service will be distributed between instances on `cluster1` and `cluster2`
resulting in responses with either `v1` or `v2` in the body:

{{< text sh >}}
Hello version: v2, instance: helloworld-v2-758dd55874-6x4t8
{{< /text >}}

{{< text sh >}}
Hello version: v1, instance: helloworld-v1-86f77cd7bd-cpxhv
{{< /text >}}

You can also verify the IP addresses used to access the endpoints by printing the log of the sleep's `istio-proxy` container.

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl logs --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -n sample $(kubectl get pod --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -n sample -l app=sleep -o jsonpath={.items[0].metadata.name}) istio-proxy
[2018-11-25T12:37:52.077Z] "GET /hello HTTP/1.1" 200 - 0 60 190 189 "-" "curl/7.60.0" "6e096efe-f550-4dfa-8c8c-ba164baf4679" "helloworld.sample:5000" "192.23.120.32:15443" outbound|5000||helloworld.sample.svc.cluster.local - 10.20.194.146:5000 10.10.0.89:59496 -
[2018-11-25T12:38:06.745Z] "GET /hello HTTP/1.1" 200 - 0 60 171 170 "-" "curl/7.60.0" "6f93c9cc-d32a-4878-b56a-086a740045d2" "helloworld.sample:5000" "10.10.0.90:5000" outbound|5000||helloworld.sample.svc.cluster.local - 10.20.194.146:5000 10.10.0.89:59646 -
{{< /text >}}

The gateway IP, `192.23.120.32:15443`, of `cluster2` is logged when v2 was called and the instance IP, `10.10.0.90:5000`, of `cluster1` is logged when v1 was called.

## Cleanup

Execute the following commands to clean up the demo services __and__ the Istio components.

Cleanup the `cluster2` cluster:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl delete --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 -f istio-remote-auth.yaml
$ kubectl delete --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 ns istio-system
$ kubectl delete --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 ns sample
$ unset CTX_CLUSTER2 CLUSTER_NAME SERVER SECRET_NAME CA_DATA TOKEN INGRESS_HOST SECURE_INGRESS_PORT INGRESS_PORT
$ rm istio-remote-auth.yaml
{{< /text >}}

Cleanup the `cluster1` cluster:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl delete --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -f istio-auth.yaml
$ kubectl delete --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 ns istio-system
$ for i in install/kubernetes/helm/istio-init/files/crd*yaml; do kubectl delete --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -f $i; done
$ kubectl delete --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 ns sample
$ unset CTX_CLUSTER1
$ rm istio-auth.yaml n2-k8s-config
{{< /text >}}
