content/docs/examples/tutorial/setup-local-computer/index.md, before:

---
title: Setup local computer
overview: Set up your local computer for the tutorial.
weight: 3
---

{{< boilerplate work-in-progress >}}

In this module you prepare your local computer for the tutorial.

1.  Install [curl](https://curl.haxx.se/download.html).

1.  Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).

1.  Install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/install/).

1.  Download one of the [Istio release archives](https://github.com/istio/istio/releases) and extract
    the `istioctl` command line tool from it. The tool is in the `bin` directory of the archive.

    Verify that you can run `istioctl`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ istioctl version
    version.BuildInfo{Version:"release-1.1-20190214-09-16", GitRevision:"6113e155ac85e2485e30dfea2b80fd97afd3130a", User:"root", Host:"4496ae63-3039-11e9-86e9-0a580a2c0304", GolangVersion:"go1.10.4", DockerHub:"gcr.io/istio-release", BuildStatus:"Clean", GitTag:"1.1.0-snapshot.6-6-g6113e15"}
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Store the configuration you set [the previous module](/docs/examples/tutorial/setup-kubernetes-cluster)
    (or received from someone who set up the cluster for you) in the `KUBECONFIG` environment variable:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export KUBECONFIG=./${NAMESPACE}-user-config.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Verify that you configuration took effect by printing the current namespace:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl config view -o jsonpath="{.contexts == \"$(kubectl config current-context)\")].context.namespace}"
    tutorial
    {{< /text >}}

    You should see the name of your namespace in the output.

Congratulations! You have a Kubernetes cluster ready for learning and you set up your local computer.
Proceed to [the next module](/docs/examples/tutorial/single/) to run your first microservice. Enjoy!

Commit message:

split the sentence about extracting the istioctl from the archive
Co-Authored-By: Rigs Caballero <grca@google.com>

content/docs/examples/tutorial/setup-local-computer/index.md, after:

---
title: Setup local computer
overview: Set up your local computer for the tutorial.
weight: 3
---

{{< boilerplate work-in-progress >}}

In this module you prepare your local computer for the tutorial.

1.  Install [curl](https://curl.haxx.se/download.html).

1.  Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).

1.  Install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/install/).

1.  Download one of the [Istio release archives](https://github.com/istio/istio/releases) and extract
    the `istioctl` command line tool from the `bin` directory, and verify that you
    can run `istioctl` with the following command:

    Verify that you can run `istioctl`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ istioctl version
    version.BuildInfo{Version:"release-1.1-20190214-09-16", GitRevision:"6113e155ac85e2485e30dfea2b80fd97afd3130a", User:"root", Host:"4496ae63-3039-11e9-86e9-0a580a2c0304", GolangVersion:"go1.10.4", DockerHub:"gcr.io/istio-release", BuildStatus:"Clean", GitTag:"1.1.0-snapshot.6-6-g6113e15"}
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Store the configuration you set [the previous module](/docs/examples/tutorial/setup-kubernetes-cluster)
    (or received from someone who set up the cluster for you) in the `KUBECONFIG` environment variable:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export KUBECONFIG=./${NAMESPACE}-user-config.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Verify that you configuration took effect by printing the current namespace:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl config view -o jsonpath="{.contexts == \"$(kubectl config current-context)\")].context.namespace}"
    tutorial
    {{< /text >}}

    You should see the name of your namespace in the output.

Congratulations! You have a Kubernetes cluster ready for learning and you set up your local computer.
Proceed to [the next module](/docs/examples/tutorial/single/) to run your first microservice. Enjoy!
