## Installation

- **Added** experimental [manifest and profile commands](docs/setup/install/operator/) to install and manage the Istio control plane for evaluation.

## Traffic Management

- **Added** automatic determination of protocol types. This removes the need for you to explicitly name service ports as `http` or `tcp`.
- **Added** a mode to the Gateway API for mutual TLS operation. The new mode can read certificates via SDS.
- **Added** Sidecar proxy readiness checks now check Envoy's readiness status.
- **Fixed** issues present when a service communicates over the network first in permissive mutual TLS mode for protocols like MySQL and MongoDB.
- **Improved** container ports are no longer required in the pod spec. All ports will be captured by default.
- **Improved** the `EnvoyFilter` API. You can now add or update all configurations.
- **Improved** the Redis load balancer to now default to [`MAGLEV`](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/v1.6.0/intro/arch_overview/load_balancing#maglev) when using the Redis proxy.
- **Improved** load balancing to direct traffic to the [same region and zone](docs/ops/traffic-management/locality-load-balancing/) by default.
- **Improved** Pilot performance. The reduction in CPU utilization could be up to 10 times depending on deployment.
- **Improved** the `ServiceEntry` API to allow for the same hostname in different namespaces.
- **Improved** the [Sidecar API](/docs/reference/config/networking/v1alpha3/sidecar/#OutboundTrafficPolicy) to customize the `OutboundTrafficPolicy` policy.

## Security

- **Added** a unified logging pattern to Citadel agent.
- **Added** metrics to the Citadel agent to monitor SDS push.
- **Improved** the ingress gateway to provide client CA certificates when using SDS.
- **Added** trust domain validation for Envoy proxies using mutual TLS. Improved validation only applies to the `Sidecars` resource.
- **Added** the `ca.istio.io/env` and `ca.istio.io/override` labels for operators to control service account secret generation by namespace.
- **Removed** integration with Vault CA temporarily. SDS requirements caused the temporary removal but we will reintroduce Vault CA integration a future release.
- **Added** SDS support to improve the performance of Envoy proxies handling secrets.
- **Enabled** the Envoy JWT filter by default to improve security and reliability.
- **Improved** SDS reliability with the requirement for Kubernetes 1.13. Note that Istio 1.3 still works on Kubernetes 1.12, but SDS [requires Kubernetes 1.13](/blog/2019/trustworthy-jwt-sds).

## Telemetry

- **Added** Access Log Service [ALS](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v2/service/accesslog/v2/als.proto#grpc-access-log-service-als) support for Envoy gRPC.
- **Added** a Grafana dashboard for Citadel monitoring.
- **Added** [metrics](/reference/commands/sidecar-injector/#metrics) for monitoring the sidecar injector webhook.
- **Added** control plane metrics to monitor Istio's configuration state.
- **Added** telemetry reporting for traffic destined to the `Passthrough` and `BlackHole` clusters.
- **Added** alpha support for in-proxy generation of service metrics using Prometheus.
- **Added** alpha support for environmental metadata in Envoy node metadata.
- **Added** alpha support for Proxy Metadata Exchange.
- **Added** alpha support for the OpenCensus trace driver.
- **Improved** the mesh dashboard to provide monitoring of Istio's configuration state.
- **Improved** the Pilot dashboard to expose additional key metrics to more clearly identify errors.
- **Removed** deprecated `Adapter` and `Template` custom resource definitions (CRDs).
- **Deprecated** Mixer adapters. Please begin the transition of all extensions to the new extension model. Legacy Mixer integration support continues only for Istio 1.3 and 1.4.
- **Deprecated** Deprecated HTTP API Spec. The support for producing API attributes will be be removed in Istio 1.4.

## Policy

- **Improved** rate limit enforcement to allow communication when the quota backend is unavailable.

## Configuration Management

- **Added** a configuration for Galley to use new configuration processing.
- **Fixed** Galley to stop too many gRPC pings from closing connections.
- **Improved** Galley to avoid control plane upgrade failures.

## istioctl

- **Added** `istioctl kube-uninject` to remove Istio configuration from a previously injected configuration.
- **Added** `istioctl experimental describe pod` to produce the Istio configuration affecting a Pod.
- **Added** `istioctl experimental manifest apply` to generate and apply an Istio installation.
- **Added** `istioctl experimental manifest diff` to show the difference betweeen two manifests.
- **Added** `istioctl experimental manifest generate` to generate an Istio installation manifest.
- **Added** `istioctl experimental manifest migrate` to convert Istio's `values.yaml` file into a format that suits the Istio operator.
- **Added** `istioctl experimental manifest versions` to list all supported Istio versions.
- **Added** `istioctl experimental profile diff Show` to show the difference between two Istio configuration profiles.
- **Added** `istioctl experimental profile dump` to show an Istio configuration profile.
- **Added** `istioctl experimental profile list` to list all Istio configuration profiles.
- **Added** `istioctl experimental add-to-mesh` to add virtual machines to an existing Istio service mesh.
- **Added** `istioctl experimental remove-from-mesh` to remove virtual machines from an existing Istio service mesh.
- **Promoted** the `istioctl` subcommands `metrics`, `convert-ingress`, and `dashboard` to supported features.

## Documentation

- **Added** [Istio Deployment Models concept](/docs/concepts/deployment-models/).
- **Added** documentation for [SDS using trustworthy JWTs](/blog/2019/trustworthy-jwt-sds/).
- **Added** [CNI installation and upgrade instructions](/docs/setup/additional-setup/cni/).
- **Added** the [Istio Operator installation guide](/docs/setup/install/operator/). The Operator and related docs are experimental.
- **Added** examples for [mesh expansion](/docs/examples/mesh-expansion/).
- **Added** diff generation for the Helm `values.yaml` file between releases.
- **Fixed** technical inaccuracies and confusing info from the [Traffic Management concept](/docs/concepts/traffic-management).
- **Improved** the [Getting started page](/docs/setup/getting-started/).
- **Improved** the [Operations guide](/docs/ops/) to improve the visibility of the troubleshooting content.
- **Improved** the [Istio glossary](/docs/reference/glossary/).
- **Improved** the [Observability concept](/docs/concepts/observability/). 

## Other

- **Added** new images based on [distroless](/docs/ops/security/harden-docker-images/) base images.
- **Improved** the Istio CNI Helm chart to have consistent versions with Istio.
- **Improved** Improved Kubernetes Jobs behavior. The Kubernetes Jobs now exit correctly when the job manually calls the /quitquitquit endpoint.
