---
title: Istio 0.6

order: 95

layout: about
type: markdown
---
{% include home.html %}

In addition to the usual pile of bug fixes and perf improvements, this release includes the new or 
updated features detailed below.

## Networking

- **Custom Envoy Config**. Pilot now supports ferrying custom Envoy config to the
proxy. TBD: doc link?

## Mixer adapters

- **SolarWinds**. Mixer can now interface to AppOptics and Papertrail.
[Learn more]({{home}}/docs/reference/config/adapters/solarwinds.html)

- **Redisquota**. Mixer now supports a Redis-based adapter for rate limit tracking.
[Learn more]({{home}}/docs/reference/config/adapters/redisquota.html)

- **Datadog**. Mixer now provides an adapter to deliver metric data to a Datadog agent.
[Learn more]({{home}}/docs/reference/config/adapters/datadog.html)

## Other

- **Separate Check & Report Clusters**. When configuring Envoy, it's now possible to use different clusters
for Mixer instances that are used for Mixer's Check functionality from those used for Mixer's Report
functionality. This may be useful in large deployments for better scaling of Mixer instances.
TBD: doc link?

- **Helm Charts**. TBD: what can we say? TBD: doc link?

- **Monitoring Dashboards**. There is now Pilot monitoring dashboard in Grafana. TBD: anything else to say about our dashboards in this release?

- **Liveness and Readiness Probes**. Istio components now provide canonical liveness and readiness
probe support to help ensure mesh infrastructure health. [Enabling this Istio CA probe]({{home}}/docs/tasks/security/health-check.html)

- **Ansible**. TBD: What can we say? TBD: doc link?

- **Egress Policy and Telemetry**. TBD: What to can we say? TBD: doc link?
