---
title: Istio 0.8

weight: 93
---
{% include home.html %}

In addition to the usual pile of bug fixes and performance improvements, this release includes the new or
updated features detailed below.

## Networking

- **Revamped Traffic Management Model**. We're finally ready to take the wraps off our
new [traffic management configuration model]({{home}}/blog/2018/v1alpha3-routing.html).
The new model adds many new features and addresses usability issues
with the prior model. There is a conversion tool built into `istioctl` to help migrate your config from
the old model. [Learn more about the new traffic management model]({{home}}/docs/tasks/traffic-management-v1alpha3/).

- **Envoy V2**. Users can choose to inject Envoy V2 as the sidecar. In this mode, Pilot uses Envoy's new API to push configuration to the data plane. This new approach
increases effective scalability and should eliminate spurious 404 errors. [TBD: docs on how to control this?]

- **Gateway for Ingress/Egress**. We no longer support combining Kubernetes Ingress specs with Istio route rules, as it has led to several
bugs and reliability issues. Istio now
supports a platform independent ingress/egress Gateway that works across Kubernetes and Cloud Foundry and works seamlessly with the routing rules
[TBD: doc link]

- **Constrained Inbound Ports**. We now restrict the inbound ports in a pod to the ones declared by the apps running inside that pod.

## Security

- **Introducing Citadel**. We've finally given a name to our security component. What was
formerly known as Istio-Auth or Istio-CA is now called Citadel.

- **Multicluster Support**. We support per-cluster Citadel in multicluster deployments such that all Citadels share the same root cert
and workloads can authenticate each other across the mesh.

- **Authentication Policy**. We've introduced authentication policy that can be used to configure service-to-service
authentication (mutual TLS) and end user authentication. This is the recommended way for enabling mutual TLS
(over the existing config flag and service annotations). [Learn more]({{home}}/docs/tasks/security/authn-policy.html).

## Telemetry

- **Self-Reporting**. Mixer and Pilot now produce telemetry that flows through the normal
Istio telemetry pipeline, just like services in the mesh.

## Setup

- **A la Carte Istio**. Istio has a rich set of features, however you don't need to install or consume them all together. By using
Helm or `istioctl gen-deploy`, users can install only the features they want. For example, users can install Pilot only and enjoy traffic
management functionality without dealing with Mixer or Citadel.
Learn more about [customization through Helm](https://istio.io/docs/setup/kubernetes/helm-install.html#customization-with-helm)
and about [`istioctl gen-deploy`](https://istio.io/docs/reference/commands/istioctl.html#istioctl%20gen-deploy).

## Mixer adapters

- **CloudWatch**. Mixer can now report metrics to AWS CloudWatch.
[Learn more]({{home}}/docs/reference/config/adapters/cloudwatch.html)

## Known issues with 0.8

- A gateway with virtual services pointing to a headless service won't work ([Issue #5005](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/5005)).
