content/about/notes/1.1/index.md, before:

---
title: Istio 1.1
publishdate: 2019-03-20
icon: notes
---

We're proud to release Istio 1.1! We have spent the last 8 months making some significant improvements to the overall
product, with fixes & features from Google, IBM, VMware, Huawei, RedHat, Cisco, SAP, Salesforce, Pivotal, SUSE, Datadog
and LightStep, to name a few. Special thanks to all of our end-users for providing feedback, feature requests and
testing the release candidates at various scales.

These release notes describe what's different between Istio 1.0.6 and Istio 1.1.

{{< relnote_links >}}

TODO: Need to include anything mentioned as explicit necessary upgrade steps in `/docs/setup/kubernetes/upgrade`
TODO: Need to have an explicit section on everything that's being deprecated.

## Upgrades

- **Helm Changes**.
TBD: need full content & links

- things to watch out for/configure before you upgrade - from all subsystems below. For example, outbound traffic is allowed by default for unknown ports, what else?
TBD: need full content & links

    - Egress gateway is disabled by default
    - Mixer policy is off by default
    - Outbound traffic policy is set to `ALLOW_ANY`. Traffic to unknown ports will be forwarded as-is.

## Traffic management

- **New `Sidecar` Resource**. Added support to limit the set of services visible to sidecar proxies in a given namespace using the `Sidecar` resource.
This limit reduces the amount of configuration computed and transmitted to the proxy. On large clusters, we recommend adding
a sidecar object per namespace. TBD LINK: how to add a sidecar per namespace?

- **Restrict Visibility of Networking Resources**. Added the new `exportTo` field to all networking resources.
The field currently takes only the following values:

    - `.` Indicates the same namespace as the resource: makes the network resources visible only within their own namespace.

    - `*` Indicates all namespaces and is the default value: makes the network resources visible within all namespaces.

- **Updates to `ServiceEntry` Resources**. Added support to specify the locality of a service
and the associated SAN to use with mutual TLS. Service entries with HTTPS ports no
longer need an additional virtual service to enable SNI-based routing.

- **Locality-Aware Routing**. Added full support for routing to services in the same locality before picking services in other localities.

- **Refined Multicluster Routing**. Simplified the multicluster setup and enabled additional deployment modes. You can now connect multiple
clusters simply using their ingress gateways without needing pod-level VPNs, deploy control planes in each cluster for high-availability cases, and
span a namespace across several clusters
to create global namespaces. Locality-aware routing is enabled by default in the HA control plane solution.

- **Istio Ingress Deprecated**. Removed the previously deprecated Istio ingress. Refer to the
[Securing Kubernetes Ingress with Cert-Manager](/docs/examples/advanced-gateways/ingress-certmgr/) example for more details on how
to use Kubernetes Ingress resources with [gateways](/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#gateways).

## Security

- **Readiness and Liveness Probes**. Added support for Kubernetes' HTTP [readiness and liveness probes when mutual TLS is enabled](/help/faq/security/#k8s-health-checks).

- **Cluster RBAC Configuration**.  Replaced the `RbacConfig` resource with the `ClusterRbacConfig` resource to implement the correct cluster scope.
See [Migrating `RbacConfig` to `ClusterRbacConfig`](/docs/setup/kubernetes/upgrade/#migrating-from-rbacconfig-to-clusterrbacconfig).
for migration instructions.

- **Identity Provisioning Through SDS**. Provides stronger security with on-node key generation and dynamic certificate rotation without restarting Envoy.
See [Provisioning Identity through SDS](/docs/tasks/security/auth-sds) for more information.

- **Authorization for TCP Services**. Supports authorization for TCP services in addition to HTTP and gRPC services.
See [Authorization for TCP Services](/docs/tasks/security/authz-tcp) for more information.

- **Authorization for End-User Groups**. Allows authorization based on `groups` claim or any list-typed claims in JWT.
See [Authorization for groups and list claims](/docs/tasks/security/rbac-groups/) for more information.

- **End-User Authentication with Per-Path Requirements**. Allows you to enable or disable JWT authentication based on the request path.
See [End-user authentication with per-path requirements](/docs/tasks/security/authn-policy/#end-user-authentication-with-per-path-requirements) for
more information.

- **External Certificate Management on Ingress Gateway Controller**. Dynamically loads and rotates external certificates.

- **Vault PKI Integration**. Provides stronger security with Vault-protected signing keys and facilitates integration with existing Vault PKIs.
See [Istio Vault CA Integration](/docs/tasks/security/vault-ca) for more information.

- **Customized (non `cluster.local`) Trust Domains**. Supports organization- or cluster-specific trust domains in the identities.

- TBD: How about adding [11667](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/11667) as well? As this is also a significant feature for security which can enable end user to set
different CA and Certs for different namespaces.

## Multicluster

- **Non-Routable L3 Networks**. Enabled using a single Istio control plane in multicluster environments with non-routable
L3 networks.
TBD: LINK

- **Multiple Control Planes**. Added support for multiple Istio control planes in support of multicluster environments.
TBD: LINK

## Policies and telemetry

- **Policy Checks Off By Default**. Changed policy checks to be turned off by default which improves performance for most customer scenarios.
[Enabling Policy Enforcement](/docs/tasks/policy-enforcement/enabling-policy/) details how to turn on Istio policy checks, if needed.

- **Kiali**. Replaced the [Service Graph addon](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/9066) with [Kiali](https://www.kiali.io) to provide
a richer visualization experience. See the [Kiali task](/docs/tasks/telemetry/kiali/) for more details.

- **Reduced Overhead**. Added several performance and scale improvements including:

    - Significant reduction in default collection of Envoy-generated statistics.

    - Added load-shedding functionality to Mixer workloads.

    - Improved the protocol between Envoy and Mixer.

- **Control Headers and Routing**. Added the option to create adapters to influence
an incoming request's headers and routing.

- **Out of Process Adapters**. The out-of-process adapter functionality is now ready for production use.

- **Tracing Improvements**. There have been many improvements in our overall tracing story:

    - Trace ids are now 128 bit wide.

    - Added support for sending trace data to [LightStep](https://preliminary.istio.io/docs/tasks/telemetry/distributed-tracing/lightstep/)

    - Added the option to disable tracing for Mixer-backed services entirely.

    - Added policy decision-aware tracing.

- **Default TCP Metrics**. Added default metrics for tracking TCP connections.

## Configuration management

- **Galley**. Added [Galley](/docs/concepts/what-is-istio/#galley) as the primary configuration ingestion and distribution mechanism within Istio. It provides
a robust model to validate, transform, and distribute configuration state to Istio components insulating the Istio components
from Kubernetes details. Galley uses the [Mesh Configuration Protocol (MCP)](https://github.com/istio/api/tree/{{< source_branch_name >}}/mcp) to interact with components. TBD: LINK TO MCP

- **Monitoring Port**. Changed Galley's default monitoring port from 9093 to 15014.

## `istioctl` and `kubectl`

- **Validate Command**. Added the [`istioctl validate`](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-validate)
command for offline validation of Istio Kubernetes resources.

- **Verify-Install Command**. Added the [`istioctl experimental verify-install`](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-experimental-verify-install) command to verify the status of an
Istio installation given a specified installation YAML file.

- **Deprecated Commands**. Deprecated the `istioctl create`, `istioctl replace`, `istioctl get`, and `istioctl delete` commands. Use the [`kubectl`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl) equivalents instead.
Deprecated the `istioctl gen-deploy` command too. Use a [`helm template`](/docs/setup/kubernetes/install/helm/#option-1-install-with-helm-via-helm-template) instead.
These commands will be removed in the 1.2 release.

- **Short Commands**. Included short commands in `kubectl` for gateways, virtual services, destination rules and service entries. TBD: ADD LINK

Commit message:

Add in-process adapter model deprecation notice

content/about/notes/1.1/index.md, after:

---
title: Istio 1.1
publishdate: 2019-03-20
icon: notes
---

We're proud to release Istio 1.1! We have spent the last 8 months making some significant improvements to the overall
product, with fixes & features from Google, IBM, VMware, Huawei, RedHat, Cisco, SAP, Salesforce, Pivotal, SUSE, Datadog
and LightStep, to name a few. Special thanks to all of our end-users for providing feedback, feature requests and
testing the release candidates at various scales.

These release notes describe what's different between Istio 1.0.6 and Istio 1.1.

{{< relnote_links >}}

TODO: Need to include anything mentioned as explicit necessary upgrade steps in `/docs/setup/kubernetes/upgrade`
TODO: Need to have an explicit section on everything that's being deprecated.

## Upgrades

- **Helm Changes**.
TBD: need full content & links

- things to watch out for/configure before you upgrade - from all subsystems below. For example, outbound traffic is allowed by default for unknown ports, what else?
TBD: need full content & links

    - Egress gateway is disabled by default
    - Mixer policy is off by default
    - Outbound traffic policy is set to `ALLOW_ANY`. Traffic to unknown ports will be forwarded as-is.

## Traffic management

- **New `Sidecar` Resource**. Added support to limit the set of services visible to sidecar proxies in a given namespace using the `Sidecar` resource.
This limit reduces the amount of configuration computed and transmitted to the proxy. On large clusters, we recommend adding
a sidecar object per namespace. TBD LINK: how to add a sidecar per namespace?

- **Restrict Visibility of Networking Resources**. Added the new `exportTo` field to all networking resources.
The field currently takes only the following values:

    - `.` Indicates the same namespace as the resource: makes the network resources visible only within their own namespace.

    - `*` Indicates all namespaces and is the default value: makes the network resources visible within all namespaces.

- **Updates to `ServiceEntry` Resources**. Added support to specify the locality of a service
and the associated SAN to use with mutual TLS. Service entries with HTTPS ports no
longer need an additional virtual service to enable SNI-based routing.

- **Locality-Aware Routing**. Added full support for routing to services in the same locality before picking services in other localities.

- **Refined Multicluster Routing**. Simplified the multicluster setup and enabled additional deployment modes. You can now connect multiple
clusters simply using their ingress gateways without needing pod-level VPNs, deploy control planes in each cluster for high-availability cases, and
span a namespace across several clusters
to create global namespaces. Locality-aware routing is enabled by default in the HA control plane solution.

- **Istio Ingress Deprecated**. Removed the previously deprecated Istio ingress. Refer to the
[Securing Kubernetes Ingress with Cert-Manager](/docs/examples/advanced-gateways/ingress-certmgr/) example for more details on how
to use Kubernetes Ingress resources with [gateways](/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#gateways).

## Security

- **Readiness and Liveness Probes**. Added support for Kubernetes' HTTP [readiness and liveness probes when mutual TLS is enabled](/help/faq/security/#k8s-health-checks).

- **Cluster RBAC Configuration**.  Replaced the `RbacConfig` resource with the `ClusterRbacConfig` resource to implement the correct cluster scope.
See [Migrating `RbacConfig` to `ClusterRbacConfig`](/docs/setup/kubernetes/upgrade/#migrating-from-rbacconfig-to-clusterrbacconfig).
for migration instructions.

- **Identity Provisioning Through SDS**. Provides stronger security with on-node key generation and dynamic certificate rotation without restarting Envoy.
See [Provisioning Identity through SDS](/docs/tasks/security/auth-sds) for more information.

- **Authorization for TCP Services**. Supports authorization for TCP services in addition to HTTP and gRPC services.
See [Authorization for TCP Services](/docs/tasks/security/authz-tcp) for more information.

- **Authorization for End-User Groups**. Allows authorization based on `groups` claim or any list-typed claims in JWT.
See [Authorization for groups and list claims](/docs/tasks/security/rbac-groups/) for more information.

- **End-User Authentication with Per-Path Requirements**. Allows you to enable or disable JWT authentication based on the request path.
See [End-user authentication with per-path requirements](/docs/tasks/security/authn-policy/#end-user-authentication-with-per-path-requirements) for
more information.

- **External Certificate Management on Ingress Gateway Controller**. Dynamically loads and rotates external certificates.

- **Vault PKI Integration**. Provides stronger security with Vault-protected signing keys and facilitates integration with existing Vault PKIs.
See [Istio Vault CA Integration](/docs/tasks/security/vault-ca) for more information.

- **Customized (non `cluster.local`) Trust Domains**. Supports organization- or cluster-specific trust domains in the identities.

- TBD: How about adding [11667](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/11667) as well? As this is also a significant feature for security which can enable end user to set
different CA and Certs for different namespaces.

## Multicluster

- **Non-Routable L3 Networks**. Enabled using a single Istio control plane in multicluster environments with non-routable
L3 networks.
TBD: LINK

- **Multiple Control Planes**. Added support for multiple Istio control planes in support of multicluster environments.
TBD: LINK

## Policies and telemetry

- **Policy Checks Off By Default**. Changed policy checks to be turned off by default which improves performance for most customer scenarios.
[Enabling Policy Enforcement](/docs/tasks/policy-enforcement/enabling-policy/) details how to turn on Istio policy checks, if needed.

- **Kiali**. Replaced the [Service Graph addon](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/9066) with [Kiali](https://www.kiali.io) to provide
a richer visualization experience. See the [Kiali task](/docs/tasks/telemetry/kiali/) for more details.

- **Reduced Overhead**. Added several performance and scale improvements including:

    - Significant reduction in default collection of Envoy-generated statistics.

    - Added load-shedding functionality to Mixer workloads.

    - Improved the protocol between Envoy and Mixer.

- **Control Headers and Routing**. Added the option to create adapters to influence
an incoming request's headers and routing.

- **Out of Process Adapters**. The out-of-process adapter functionality is now ready for production use. As a result, the in-process
adapter model is being deprecated in this release. All new adapter development should use the out-of-process model moving forward.

- **Tracing Improvements**. There have been many improvements in our overall tracing story:

    - Trace ids are now 128 bit wide.

    - Added support for sending trace data to [LightStep](https://preliminary.istio.io/docs/tasks/telemetry/distributed-tracing/lightstep/)

    - Added the option to disable tracing for Mixer-backed services entirely.

    - Added policy decision-aware tracing.

- **Default TCP Metrics**. Added default metrics for tracking TCP connections.

## Configuration management

- **Galley**. Added [Galley](/docs/concepts/what-is-istio/#galley) as the primary configuration ingestion and distribution mechanism within Istio. It provides
a robust model to validate, transform, and distribute configuration state to Istio components insulating the Istio components
from Kubernetes details. Galley uses the [Mesh Configuration Protocol (MCP)](https://github.com/istio/api/tree/{{< source_branch_name >}}/mcp) to interact with components. TBD: LINK TO MCP

- **Monitoring Port**. Changed Galley's default monitoring port from 9093 to 15014.

## `istioctl` and `kubectl`

- **Validate Command**. Added the [`istioctl validate`](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-validate)
command for offline validation of Istio Kubernetes resources.

- **Verify-Install Command**. Added the [`istioctl experimental verify-install`](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-experimental-verify-install) command to verify the status of an
Istio installation given a specified installation YAML file.

- **Deprecated Commands**. Deprecated the `istioctl create`, `istioctl replace`, `istioctl get`, and `istioctl delete` commands. Use the [`kubectl`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl) equivalents instead.
Deprecated the `istioctl gen-deploy` command too. Use a [`helm template`](/docs/setup/kubernetes/install/helm/#option-1-install-with-helm-via-helm-template) instead.
These commands will be removed in the 1.2 release.

- **Short Commands**. Included short commands in `kubectl` for gateways, virtual services, destination rules and service entries. TBD: ADD LINK
