---
title: Generate Istio Metrics Without Mixer
description: In-proxy generation of service-level metrics.
weight: 70
---

{{< warning >}}

This document describes **Alpha** quality features. They have been exposed *only* to enable further testing
and evaluation across the community.

The functionality described here is NOT considered stable. No performance or stability guarantees are provided at this time.

{{< /warning>}}

As of the 1.3 release, Istio provides experimental support for the generation of service-level HTTP metrics directly in Envoy. This enables operators to continue to monitor their service meshes using Istio-provided tooling, without requiring the use of Istio's Mixer. This support is the first step towards a new extensibility architecture for Istio, which will put Mixer-like functionality directly in the sidecar proxies.

The in-proxy generation of service-level metrics is a drop in replacement for the HTTP metrics currently generated by Mixer, namely: `istio_requests_total`, `istio_request_duration_*` and `istio_request_size`.

## Enable Service-level Metrics Generation in Envoy

To enable the generation of service-level metrics in Envoy, execute the following steps:

1. Disable calls to `istio-telemetry` in the mesh

    In order to prevent duplicate telemetry generation, turn off the use of the `istio-telemetry` service for telemetry generation.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ helm template install/kubernetes/helm/istio --name istio --namespace istio-system --set mixer.telemetry.enabled=false --set mixer.policy.enabled=false
    {{< /text >}}

    Alternatively, comment out `mixerCheckServer` and `mixerReportServer` from the mesh config (the `istio` config map).

1. Enable the metadata exchange filter

    For the generation of service-level metrics, proxies must exchange workload metadata. This exchange is handled by a custom filter.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl -n istio-system apply -f https://github.com/istio/proxy/blob/master/extensions/stats/testdata/istio/metadata-exchange_filter.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1. Enable the custom stats filter

    A custom filter must also be applied to actually generate the service-level metrics.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl -n istio-system apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/istio/proxy/master/extensions/stats/testdata/istio/stats_filter.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1. See the results

    Visit Grafana "Istio Mesh" dashboard. It will display the same telemetry as before -- without any requests flowing through Istio's Mixer.

## Differences with Mixer-based generation

There are some small differences between the in-proxy generation of the service-level metrics and the Mixer-based generation in the 1.3.0 release. Full feature-parity is a requirement before this functionality can be considered stable. In the meantime, please be aware of these differences:

1. The new metric is called `istio_request_duration_milliseconds` (instead of `istio_request_duration_seconds`). The Grafana dashboard is updated to account for the new metric.
1. The `istio_request_duration_milliseconds` metric uses more granular buckets inside the proxy. This results in lower latency measurements in the histograms than before.

## Performance impact

{{< warning >}}

The focus of the initial release of this functionality has not been on performance optimization. We have several planned performance-related improvements
in the pipeline at this time.

This feature will not be considered for promotion to Beta or Stable status until our performance goals have been realized.

{{< /warning >}}

1. The `istio-telemetry` deployment can be switched off. This should save ~0.5 vCPU per 1000 rps of mesh traffic. This also halves the CPU consumed by Istio while collecting Istio standard metrics.
1. The new filters together use 10% less CPU for `istio-proxy` containers than the Mixer filter.
1. The new filters add ~5ms P90 latency (1000 rps) as compared to a generic Envoy in the current implementation.

## Known limitations in 1.3

1. Only Prometheus export of these metrics is supported.
1. No support for TCP metrics generation is provided.
1. No proxy-side customization or configuration of the generated metrics is provided.

## Implementation Details

The 1.3.0 implementation uses the WASM sandbox API, but does not run inside a WASM VM. It is natively compiled in Envoy using `NullVM`. In subsequent releases, we will enable running filters in the V8 WASM VM.

In 1.3, the filters are configured using the Istio Envoy Filter API. For the 1.4 release, we will introduce new ways of configuring extensions.