content/docs/examples/tutorial/prereq/index.md, before:

---
title: Prerequisites
overview: Check the prerequisites for this tutorial.
weight: 2
---

{{< boilerplate work-in-progress >}}

For this tutorial you need a Kubernetes cluster with a namespace for the tutorial's modules and a
local computer to run the commands. If you are participating in a guided workshop
and the instructors provide the cluster, let them handle the Kubernetes cluster prerequisites, and you can skip ahead to
setup your local computer.
If you intend to run the tutorial's commands on your own cluster, mind the prerequisites for the cluster as well.

## Kubernetes cluster

Make sure that:

- You can access a Kubernetes cluster and have administrator privileges for said cluster.
- You can create a namespace in the cluster for each participant.

## Local computer

Make sure that:

- You have write access to `/etc/hosts` file
- You have the ability and permission to download, install and run command line tools on a local computer
- You have Internet connectivity for the duration of the tutorial

Commit message:

rewrite the sentence "if you intend to proceed with your own cluster"
Co-Authored-By: Rigs Caballero <grca@google.com>

content/docs/examples/tutorial/prereq/index.md, after:

---
title: Prerequisites
overview: Check the prerequisites for this tutorial.
weight: 2
---

{{< boilerplate work-in-progress >}}

For this tutorial you need a Kubernetes cluster with a namespace for the tutorial's modules and a
local computer to run the commands. If you are participating in a guided workshop
and the instructors provide the cluster, let them handle the Kubernetes cluster prerequisites, and you can skip ahead to
setup your local computer.
If you want to proceed using your own cluster, ensure your cluster satisfies the prerequisites for the cluster as well.

## Kubernetes cluster

Make sure that:

- You can access a Kubernetes cluster and have administrator privileges for said cluster.
- You can create a namespace in the cluster for each participant.

## Local computer

Make sure that:

- You have write access to `/etc/hosts` file
- You have the ability and permission to download, install and run command line tools on a local computer
- You have Internet connectivity for the duration of the tutorial
