content/help/ops/traffic-management/locality-load-balancing/index.md, before:

---
title: Locality Load Balancing
description: Information on how to enable and understand Locality Load Balancing.
weight: 40
keywords: [locality,load balancing,priority,prioritized]
---

A locality defines a geographic location within your mesh using the following triplet:

- Region
- Zone
- Sub-zone

The geographic location typically represents a data center. Istio uses
this information to prioritize load balancing pools to control
the geographic location where requests are sent.

## Enabling Locality Load Balancing

This feature is experimental and off by default in 1.1. To enable locality load balancing,
set the `PILOT_ENABLE_LOCALITY_LOAD_BALANCING` environment variable in all Pilot instances.

Currently, the service discovery platform populates the locality automatically.
In Kubernetes, a pod's locality is determined via the [well-known labels for region and zone](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/labels-annotations-taints/#failure-domain-beta-kubernetes-io-region)
on the node it is deployed. If you are using hosted Kubernetes service your cloud provider
should configure this for you. If you are running your own Kubernetes cluster you will need
to add these labels to your nodes. The sub-zone concept doesn't exist in Kubernetes.
As a result, this field does not need to be configured.

## Locality-Prioritized Load Balancing

_Locality-prioritized load balancing_ is the default behavior for _locality load balancing_ .
In this mode, Istio tells Envoy to prioritize traffic to the services most closely matching
the locality of the Envoy sending the request. When all service are healthy, the requests
remains within the same locality. When services become unhealthy, traffic spills over to
the services in the next prioritized locality. This behavior continues until all localities are
receiving traffic. You can find the exact percentages in the [Envoy documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/intro/arch_overview/load_balancing/priority#priority-levels).

A typical prioritization for an Envoy with a locality of `us-west/zone2` is as follows:

- Priority 0: `us-west/zone2`
- Priority 1: `us-west/zone1`, `us-west/zone3`
- Priority 2: `us-east/zone1`, `us-east/zone2`, `eu-west/zone1`

The hierarchy of prioritization matches in the following order:

1. Region
2. Zone
3. Sub-zone

Proxies in the same zone but different regions are not considered local to one another. 

### Overriding the Locality Fail-over

Sometimes, you need to constrain the traffic fail-over to avoid sending traffic to
a service across the globe when there are not enough healthy endpoints in the
same region. This behavior is useful when sending fail-over traffic across regions
would not improve service health or many other reasons including regulatory controls.
To constrain traffic to a region, use the mesh `LocalityLoadBalancerSetting.Failover`
configuration detailed in the [Locality load balancing reference guide](/docs/reference/config/istio.mesh.v1alpha1/#LocalityLoadBalancerSetting).

Commit message:

s/service/workload/g
Signed-off-by: Liam White <liam@tetrate.io>

content/help/ops/traffic-management/locality-load-balancing/index.md, after:

---
title: Locality Load Balancing
description: Information on how to enable and understand Locality Load Balancing.
weight: 40
keywords: [locality,load balancing,priority,prioritized]
---

A locality defines a geographic location within your mesh using the following triplet:

- Region
- Zone
- Sub-zone

The geographic location typically represents a data center. Istio uses
this information to prioritize load balancing pools to control
the geographic location where requests are sent.

## Enabling Locality Load Balancing

This feature is experimental and off by default in 1.1. To enable locality load balancing,
set the `PILOT_ENABLE_LOCALITY_LOAD_BALANCING` environment variable in all Pilot instances.

Currently, the service discovery platform populates the locality automatically.
In Kubernetes, a pod's locality is determined via the [well-known labels for region and zone](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/labels-annotations-taints/#failure-domain-beta-kubernetes-io-region)
on the node it is deployed. If you are using a hosted Kubernetes service your cloud provider
should configure this for you. If you are running your own Kubernetes cluster you will need
to add these labels to your nodes. The sub-zone concept doesn't exist in Kubernetes.
As a result, this field does not need to be configured.

## Locality-Prioritized Load Balancing

_Locality-prioritized load balancing_ is the default behavior for _locality load balancing_ .
In this mode, Istio tells Envoy to prioritize traffic to the workload instances most closely matching
the locality of the Envoy sending the request. When all instances are healthy, the requests
remains within the same locality. When instances become unhealthy, traffic spills over to
instances in the next prioritized locality. This behavior continues until all localities are
receiving traffic. You can find the exact percentages in the [Envoy documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/intro/arch_overview/load_balancing/priority#priority-levels).

A typical prioritization for an Envoy with a locality of `us-west/zone2` is as follows:

- Priority 0: `us-west/zone2`
- Priority 1: `us-west/zone1`, `us-west/zone3`
- Priority 2: `us-east/zone1`, `us-east/zone2`, `eu-west/zone1`

The hierarchy of prioritization matches in the following order:

1. Region
2. Zone
3. Sub-zone

Proxies in the same zone but different regions are not considered local to one another.

### Overriding the Locality Fail-over

Sometimes, you need to constrain the traffic fail-over to avoid sending traffic to
a endpoints across the globe when there are not enough healthy endpoints in the
same region. This behavior is useful when sending fail-over traffic across regions
would not improve service health or many other reasons including regulatory controls.
To constrain traffic to a region, use the mesh `LocalityLoadBalancerSetting.Failover`
configuration detailed in the [Locality load balancing reference guide](/docs/reference/config/istio.mesh.v1alpha1/#LocalityLoadBalancerSetting).
