content/en/docs/examples/alb-nlb/index.md, before:

---
title: Securely direct traffic from IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service Ingress to Istio Ingress Gateway
description: Configuring the IKS Ingress ALB to direct traffic Istio Ingress gateway with mutual TLS.
weight: 43
keywords: [traffic-management,ingress,file-mount-credentials,iks]
---

This example shows how to configure the [IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/kubernetes-service/)
[Ingress ALB](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-ingress-about) to direct traffic to the Istio
Ingress gateway [NLB](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-loadbalancer-about) with mutual TLS.

When you use IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service without Istio, you may control your ingress traffic using the provided
Application Load Balancer (ALB). This ingress-traffic routing is commonly configured using a Kubernetes
[Ingress](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/) resource with
[ALB-specific annotations](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-ingress_annotation).

When you start using Istio in your IKS cluster, instead of using Ingress to route traffic directly to your services,
it is recommended that you use the
[Istio Ingress Gateway](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/ingress-control/). One of the main reasons for this is
the fact the Nginx ALB provided by IKS will not be able to communicate to the services inside the mesh when you enable
Istio {{< gloss "mutual TLS authentication" >}}mutual TLS{{< /gloss >}}. While you transition to having only Ingress
Gateway as your main entry point, you can have continue to use the traditional Ingress for non-Istio services and the
Istio Gateway for services that are part of the mesh.

In this example you will configure the IKS Ingress ALB to direct traffic to the services inside an Istio service mesh
through the Istio ingress gateway, while using {{< gloss "mutual TLS authentication" >}}mutual TLS{{< /gloss >}} between
ALB and the Gateway. The traffic to the services without Istio sidecar can continue to flow as before, directly from
ALB.

## Initial setting

1.  Store the External-IP of your `istio-ingressgateway` service in an environment variable.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export INGRESS_IP=$(kubectl -n istio-system get service istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Create the `httptools` namespace and enable Istio sidecar injection:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create namespace httptools
    $ kubectl label namespace httptools istio-injection=enabled
    namespace/httptools created
    namespace/httptools labeled
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Deploy the `httpbin` sample to `httptools`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml@ -n httptools
    service/httpbin created
    deployment.apps/httpbin created
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Require {{< gloss "mutual TLS authentication" >}}mutual TLS{{< /gloss >}} for the traffic to the services in
    `httptools`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -n httptools -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: authentication.istio.io/v1alpha1
    kind: Policy
    metadata:
      name: default
    spec:
      peers:
      - mtls: {}
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Add a destination rule to instruct the sidecars to perform {{< gloss >}}mutual TLS authentication{{< /gloss >}} when
    calling the services inside `httptools`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -n httptools -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
    kind: DestinationRule
    metadata:
      name: default
    spec:
      host: "*.httptools.svc.cluster.local"
      trafficPolicy:
        tls:
          mode: ISTIO_MUTUAL
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

## Create secrets for ALB and Istio ingress gateway

IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service generates TLS certificates and stores them as a secret in the default namespace when you
request a DNS subdomain for an NLB IP. The Application Load Balancer Ingress subdomain certificates are also stored as a
secret in the default namespace. We will need information from both of these credentials
[EXPLAIN WHY YOU NEED BOTH HERE] to create new certificates and private keys and mount them into ALB and Istio ingress
gateway pods.

1.  Store the name of your cluster in the `CLUSTER_NAME` environment variable:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export CLUSTER_NAME=<your cluster name>
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Store the domain name of your cluster in the `ALB_INGRESS_DOMAIN` environment variable:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ ibmcloud ks cluster get --cluster $CLUSTER_NAME | grep Ingress
    Ingress Subdomain:              <your ALB ingress domain>
    Ingress Secret:                 <your ALB secret>
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export ALB_INGRESS_DOMAIN=<your ALB ingress domain>
    $ export ALB_SECRET=<your ALB secret>
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Create a DNS subdomain for the NLB IP of the Istio Ingress Gateway service:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ ibmcloud ks nlb-dns-create --cluster $CLUSTER_NAME --ip $INGRESS_IP
    Host name subdomain is created as <some NLB domain>
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Store the domain name from the previous command in an environment variable:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export NLB_INGRESS_DOMAIN=<the domain from the previous command>
    {{< /text >}}

1.  List the NLB domain names:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ ibmcloud ks nlb-dnss --cluster $CLUSTER_NAME | grep $INGRESS_IP
    Retrieving host names, certificates, IPs, and health check monitors for network load balancer (NLB) pods in cluster <your cluster>...
    OK
    Hostname              IP(s)               Health Monitor   SSL Cert Status   SSL Cert Secret Name
    <your NLB hostname>   <your ingress IP>   enabled          created           <the matching secret name>
    ...
    {{< /text >}}

    Wait until the status of the NLB hostname that matches the IP of the Istio ingress gateway service becomes `enabled`.

1.  Store the name of the secret that matches the IP of the Istio ingress gateway service:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export NLB_SECRET=<your NLB secret's name which appears as the last value in the output of the previous command>
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Extract the certificate and the key from the secret provided for NLB:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ mkdir nlb_certs
    $ kubectl get secret $NLB_SECRET --namespace=default -o yaml | grep 'tls.key:' | cut -f2 -d: | base64 --decode > nlb_certs/tls.key
    $ kubectl get secret $NLB_SECRET --namespace=default -o yaml | grep 'tls.crt:' | cut -f2 -d: | base64 --decode > nlb_certs/tls.crt
    $ ls -al nlb_certs
    -rw-r--r--   1 user  staff  1679 Sep 11 07:55 tls.key
    -rw-r--r--   1 user  staff  3921 Sep 11 07:55 trusted.crt
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Extract the certificate and the key from the secret provided for ALB:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ mkdir alb_certs
    $ kubectl get secret $ALB_SECRET --namespace=default -o yaml | grep 'tls.key:' | cut -f2 -d: | base64 --decode > alb_certs/client.key
    $ kubectl get secret $ALB_SECRET --namespace=default -o yaml | grep 'tls.crt:' | cut -f2 -d: | base64 --decode > alb_certs/client.crt
    $ ls -al alb_certs
    -rw-r--r--   1 user  staff  3738 Sep 11 07:57 client.crt
    -rw-r--r--   1 user  staff  1675 Sep 11 07:57 client.key
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Download the issuer certificate of the [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org) certificate, which is the
    issuer of the certificates provided by IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl https://letsencrypt.org/certs/trustid-x3-root.pem --output trustid-x3-root.pem
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Append the issuer certificate of [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org) to the certificate of NLB
    (currently required for ALB):

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat nlb_certs/tls.crt trustid-x3-root.pem > trusted.crt
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Create Kubernetes secrets to be used by Istio ingress gateway and ALB to establish
    {{< gloss "mutual TLS authentication" >}}mutual TLS{{< /gloss >}} between them. Note
    that the name of the secrets for the Istio ingress gateway must be exactly as in the commands.

    {{< warning >}}
    The certificates provided by IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service expire every 90 days and are automatically renewed by
    IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service 37 days before they expire.
    You will have to recreate the secrets by rerunning the instructions of this section every time the secrets provided
    by IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service are updated. You may want to use scripts or operators to automate this and keep the
    secrets in sync.
    {{< /warning >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create -n istio-system secret tls istio-ingressgateway-certs --key nlb_certs/tls.key --cert trusted.crt
    $ kubectl create -n istio-system secret generic istio-ingressgateway-ca-certs --from-file=trustid-x3-root.pem
    $ kubectl create secret generic alb-certs -n istio-system --from-file=trusted.crt --from-file=alb_certs/client.crt --from-file=alb_certs/client.key
    secret "istio-ingressgateway-certs" created
    secret "istio-ingressgateway-ca-certs" created
    secret "alb-certs" created
    {{< /text >}}

## Configure a mutual TLS ingress gateway

In this section you configure the Istio ingress gateway to perform
{{< gloss "mutual TLS authentication" >}}mutual TLS{{< /gloss >}} between external clients and the gateway.
You use the certificates and the keys provided to you for the NLB and ALB.

1.  Define a `Gateway` to allow access on port 443 only, with
    {{< gloss "mutual TLS authentication" >}}mutual TLS{{< /gloss >}}:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
    kind: Gateway
    metadata:
      name: default-ingress-gateway
    spec:
      selector:
        istio: ingressgateway # use istio default ingress gateway
      servers:
      - port:
          number: 443
          name: https
          protocol: HTTPS
        tls:
          mode: MUTUAL
          serverCertificate: /etc/istio/ingressgateway-certs/tls.crt
          privateKey: /etc/istio/ingressgateway-certs/tls.key
          caCertificates: /etc/istio/ingressgateway-ca-certs/trustid-x3-root.pem
        hosts:
        - "*"
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

1. Configure routes for traffic entering via the `Gateway`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
    kind: VirtualService
    metadata:
      name: default-ingress
    spec:
      hosts:
      - "*"
      gateways:
      - default-ingress-gateway
      http:
      - match:
        - uri:
            prefix: /status
        route:
        - destination:
            port:
              number: 8000
            host: httpbin.httptools.svc.cluster.local
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Delete the Istio Ingress Gateway's pod to reload the certificates:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete pod -l istio=ingressgateway -n istio-system
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Send a request to `httpbin` by _curl_, this time passing as parameters the client certificate
    (additional `--cert` option) and the private key (the `--key` option):

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl https://$NLB_INGRESS_DOMAIN/status/418 --cert alb_certs/client.crt  --key alb_certs/client.key

    -=[ teapot ]=-

       _...._
     .'  _ _ `.
    | ."` ^ `". _,
    \_;`"---"`|//
      |       ;/
      \_     _/
        `"""`
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Remove the directories with the ALB and NLB certificates and keys.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ rm -r nlb_certs alb_certs trustid-x3-root.pem trusted.crt
    {{< /text >}}

## Configure ALB

You will need to configure your Ingress resource to direct traffic to the Istio Ingrses gateway while using the
certificate stored in the `alb-certs` secret

1.  Configure the `Ingress` resource for ALB. You must create the `Ingress` resource in the `istio-system` namespace in
    order to forward the traffic to the Istio ingress gateway.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
    kind: Ingress
    metadata:
      name: alb-ingress
      namespace: istio-system
      annotations:
        ingress.bluemix.net/ssl-services: "ssl-service=istio-ingressgateway ssl-secret=alb-certs"
    spec:
      tls:
      - hosts:
        - httpbin.$ALB_INGRESS_DOMAIN
        secretName: $ALB_SECRET
      rules:
      - host: httpbin.$ALB_INGRESS_DOMAIN
        http:
          paths:
          - path: /status
            backend:
              serviceName: istio-ingressgateway
              servicePort: 443
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Test the ALB ingress:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl https://httpbin.$ALB_INGRESS_DOMAIN/status/418

    -=[ teapot ]=-

       _...._
     .'  _ _ `.
    | ."` ^ `". _,
    \_;`"---"`|//
      |       ;/
      \_     _/
        `"""`
    {{< /text >}}

Congratalations! You configured the IKS Ingress ALB to securely send traffic to Istio Ingress Gateway.

## Cleanup

1.  Delete the `Gateway` configuration, the `VirtualService`, and the secrets:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete ingress alb-ingress -n istio-system
    $ kubectl delete virtualservice default-ingress
    $ kubectl delete gateway default-ingress-gateway
    $ kubectl delete policy default -n httptools --ignore-not-found=true
    $ kubectl delete destinationrule default -n httptools
    $ kubectl delete secrets istio-ingressgateway-certs istio-ingressgateway-ca-certs alb-certs -n istio-system
    $ rm -rf nlb_certs alb_certs trustid-x3-root.pem trusted.crt
    $ unset CLUSTER_NAME ALB_INGRESS_DOMAIN ALB_SECRET NLB_INGRESS_DOMAIN NLB_SECRET
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Shutdown the `httpbin` service:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete -f @samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml@ -n httptools
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Delete the `httptools` namespace:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete namespace httptools
    {{< /text >}}

Commit message:

add explanation why both certificates are required

content/en/docs/examples/alb-nlb/index.md, after:

---
title: Securely direct traffic from IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service Ingress to Istio Ingress Gateway
description: Configuring the IKS Ingress ALB to direct traffic Istio Ingress gateway with mutual TLS.
weight: 43
keywords: [traffic-management,ingress,file-mount-credentials,iks]
---

This example shows how to configure the [IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/kubernetes-service/)
[Ingress ALB](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-ingress-about) to direct traffic to the Istio
Ingress gateway [NLB](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-loadbalancer-about) with mutual TLS.

When you use IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service without Istio, you may control your ingress traffic using the provided
Application Load Balancer (ALB). This ingress-traffic routing is commonly configured using a Kubernetes
[Ingress](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/) resource with
[ALB-specific annotations](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-ingress_annotation).

When you start using Istio in your IKS cluster, instead of using Ingress to route traffic directly to your services,
it is recommended that you use the
[Istio Ingress Gateway](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/ingress-control/). One of the main reasons for this is
the fact the Nginx ALB provided by IKS will not be able to communicate to the services inside the mesh when you enable
Istio {{< gloss "mutual TLS authentication" >}}mutual TLS{{< /gloss >}}. While you transition to having only Ingress
Gateway as your main entry point, you can have continue to use the traditional Ingress for non-Istio services and the
Istio Gateway for services that are part of the mesh.

In this example you will configure the IKS Ingress ALB to direct traffic to the services inside an Istio service mesh
through the Istio ingress gateway, while using {{< gloss "mutual TLS authentication" >}}mutual TLS{{< /gloss >}} between
ALB and the Gateway. The traffic to the services without Istio sidecar can continue to flow as before, directly from
ALB.

## Initial setting

1.  Store the External-IP of your `istio-ingressgateway` service in an environment variable.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export INGRESS_IP=$(kubectl -n istio-system get service istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Create the `httptools` namespace and enable Istio sidecar injection:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create namespace httptools
    $ kubectl label namespace httptools istio-injection=enabled
    namespace/httptools created
    namespace/httptools labeled
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Deploy the `httpbin` sample to `httptools`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml@ -n httptools
    service/httpbin created
    deployment.apps/httpbin created
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Require {{< gloss "mutual TLS authentication" >}}mutual TLS{{< /gloss >}} for the traffic to the services in
    `httptools`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -n httptools -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: authentication.istio.io/v1alpha1
    kind: Policy
    metadata:
      name: default
    spec:
      peers:
      - mtls: {}
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Add a destination rule to instruct the sidecars to perform {{< gloss >}}mutual TLS authentication{{< /gloss >}} when
    calling the services inside `httptools`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -n httptools -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
    kind: DestinationRule
    metadata:
      name: default
    spec:
      host: "*.httptools.svc.cluster.local"
      trafficPolicy:
        tls:
          mode: ISTIO_MUTUAL
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

## Create secrets for ALB and Istio ingress gateway

IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service generates TLS certificates and private keys and stores them as a secret in the default
namespace when you request a DNS subdomain for an NLB IP. The Application Load Balancer Ingress subdomain certificates
and keys are also stored as a secret in the default namespace. You need these credentials to establish the identities
the ALB and the Istio ingress gateway will present one to another during mutual TLS authentication between them.
You configure the ALB and the Istio ingress gateway to exchange these certificates signed by their private keys, and you
configure the ALB and the Istio ingress gateway to trust the certificates one of another.

1.  Store the name of your cluster in the `CLUSTER_NAME` environment variable:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export CLUSTER_NAME=<your cluster name>
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Store the domain name of your cluster in the `ALB_INGRESS_DOMAIN` environment variable:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ ibmcloud ks cluster get --cluster $CLUSTER_NAME | grep Ingress
    Ingress Subdomain:              <your ALB ingress domain>
    Ingress Secret:                 <your ALB secret>
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export ALB_INGRESS_DOMAIN=<your ALB ingress domain>
    $ export ALB_SECRET=<your ALB secret>
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Create a DNS subdomain for the NLB IP of the Istio Ingress Gateway service:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ ibmcloud ks nlb-dns-create --cluster $CLUSTER_NAME --ip $INGRESS_IP
    Host name subdomain is created as <some NLB domain>
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Store the domain name from the previous command in an environment variable:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export NLB_INGRESS_DOMAIN=<the domain from the previous command>
    {{< /text >}}

1.  List the NLB domain names:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ ibmcloud ks nlb-dnss --cluster $CLUSTER_NAME | grep $INGRESS_IP
    Retrieving host names, certificates, IPs, and health check monitors for network load balancer (NLB) pods in cluster <your cluster>...
    OK
    Hostname              IP(s)               Health Monitor   SSL Cert Status   SSL Cert Secret Name
    <your NLB hostname>   <your ingress IP>   enabled          created           <the matching secret name>
    ...
    {{< /text >}}

    Wait until the status of the NLB hostname that matches the IP of the Istio ingress gateway service becomes `enabled`.

1.  Store the name of the secret that matches the IP of the Istio ingress gateway service:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export NLB_SECRET=<your NLB secret's name which appears as the last value in the output of the previous command>
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Extract the certificate and the key from the secret provided for NLB:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ mkdir nlb_certs
    $ kubectl get secret $NLB_SECRET --namespace=default -o yaml | grep 'tls.key:' | cut -f2 -d: | base64 --decode > nlb_certs/tls.key
    $ kubectl get secret $NLB_SECRET --namespace=default -o yaml | grep 'tls.crt:' | cut -f2 -d: | base64 --decode > nlb_certs/tls.crt
    $ ls -al nlb_certs
    -rw-r--r--   1 user  staff  1679 Sep 11 07:55 tls.key
    -rw-r--r--   1 user  staff  3921 Sep 11 07:55 trusted.crt
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Extract the certificate and the key from the secret provided for ALB:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ mkdir alb_certs
    $ kubectl get secret $ALB_SECRET --namespace=default -o yaml | grep 'tls.key:' | cut -f2 -d: | base64 --decode > alb_certs/client.key
    $ kubectl get secret $ALB_SECRET --namespace=default -o yaml | grep 'tls.crt:' | cut -f2 -d: | base64 --decode > alb_certs/client.crt
    $ ls -al alb_certs
    -rw-r--r--   1 user  staff  3738 Sep 11 07:57 client.crt
    -rw-r--r--   1 user  staff  1675 Sep 11 07:57 client.key
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Download the issuer certificate of the [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org) certificate, which is the
    issuer of the certificates provided by IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl https://letsencrypt.org/certs/trustid-x3-root.pem --output trustid-x3-root.pem
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Append the issuer certificate of [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org) to the certificate of NLB
    (currently required for ALB):

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat nlb_certs/tls.crt trustid-x3-root.pem > trusted.crt
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Create Kubernetes secrets to be used by Istio ingress gateway and ALB to establish
    {{< gloss "mutual TLS authentication" >}}mutual TLS{{< /gloss >}} between them. Note
    that the name of the secrets for the Istio ingress gateway must be exactly as in the commands.

    {{< warning >}}
    The certificates provided by IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service expire every 90 days and are automatically renewed by
    IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service 37 days before they expire.
    You will have to recreate the secrets by rerunning the instructions of this section every time the secrets provided
    by IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service are updated. You may want to use scripts or operators to automate this and keep the
    secrets in sync.
    {{< /warning >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create -n istio-system secret tls istio-ingressgateway-certs --key nlb_certs/tls.key --cert trusted.crt
    $ kubectl create -n istio-system secret generic istio-ingressgateway-ca-certs --from-file=trustid-x3-root.pem
    $ kubectl create secret generic alb-certs -n istio-system --from-file=trusted.crt --from-file=alb_certs/client.crt --from-file=alb_certs/client.key
    secret "istio-ingressgateway-certs" created
    secret "istio-ingressgateway-ca-certs" created
    secret "alb-certs" created
    {{< /text >}}

## Configure a mutual TLS ingress gateway

In this section you configure the Istio ingress gateway to perform
{{< gloss "mutual TLS authentication" >}}mutual TLS{{< /gloss >}} between external clients and the gateway.
You use the certificates and the keys provided to you for the NLB and ALB.

1.  Define a `Gateway` to allow access on port 443 only, with
    {{< gloss "mutual TLS authentication" >}}mutual TLS{{< /gloss >}}:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
    kind: Gateway
    metadata:
      name: default-ingress-gateway
    spec:
      selector:
        istio: ingressgateway # use istio default ingress gateway
      servers:
      - port:
          number: 443
          name: https
          protocol: HTTPS
        tls:
          mode: MUTUAL
          serverCertificate: /etc/istio/ingressgateway-certs/tls.crt
          privateKey: /etc/istio/ingressgateway-certs/tls.key
          caCertificates: /etc/istio/ingressgateway-ca-certs/trustid-x3-root.pem
        hosts:
        - "*"
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

1. Configure routes for traffic entering via the `Gateway`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
    kind: VirtualService
    metadata:
      name: default-ingress
    spec:
      hosts:
      - "*"
      gateways:
      - default-ingress-gateway
      http:
      - match:
        - uri:
            prefix: /status
        route:
        - destination:
            port:
              number: 8000
            host: httpbin.httptools.svc.cluster.local
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Delete the Istio Ingress Gateway's pod to reload the certificates:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete pod -l istio=ingressgateway -n istio-system
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Send a request to `httpbin` by _curl_, this time passing as parameters the client certificate
    (additional `--cert` option) and the private key (the `--key` option):

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl https://$NLB_INGRESS_DOMAIN/status/418 --cert alb_certs/client.crt  --key alb_certs/client.key

    -=[ teapot ]=-

       _...._
     .'  _ _ `.
    | ."` ^ `". _,
    \_;`"---"`|//
      |       ;/
      \_     _/
        `"""`
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Remove the directories with the ALB and NLB certificates and keys.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ rm -r nlb_certs alb_certs trustid-x3-root.pem trusted.crt
    {{< /text >}}

## Configure ALB

You will need to configure your Ingress resource to direct traffic to the Istio Ingrses gateway while using the
certificate stored in the `alb-certs` secret

1.  Configure the `Ingress` resource for ALB. You must create the `Ingress` resource in the `istio-system` namespace in
    order to forward the traffic to the Istio ingress gateway.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
    kind: Ingress
    metadata:
      name: alb-ingress
      namespace: istio-system
      annotations:
        ingress.bluemix.net/ssl-services: "ssl-service=istio-ingressgateway ssl-secret=alb-certs"
    spec:
      tls:
      - hosts:
        - httpbin.$ALB_INGRESS_DOMAIN
        secretName: $ALB_SECRET
      rules:
      - host: httpbin.$ALB_INGRESS_DOMAIN
        http:
          paths:
          - path: /status
            backend:
              serviceName: istio-ingressgateway
              servicePort: 443
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Test the ALB ingress:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl https://httpbin.$ALB_INGRESS_DOMAIN/status/418

    -=[ teapot ]=-

       _...._
     .'  _ _ `.
    | ."` ^ `". _,
    \_;`"---"`|//
      |       ;/
      \_     _/
        `"""`
    {{< /text >}}

Congratalations! You configured the IKS Ingress ALB to securely send traffic to Istio Ingress Gateway.

## Cleanup

1.  Delete the `Gateway` configuration, the `VirtualService`, and the secrets:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete ingress alb-ingress -n istio-system
    $ kubectl delete virtualservice default-ingress
    $ kubectl delete gateway default-ingress-gateway
    $ kubectl delete policy default -n httptools --ignore-not-found=true
    $ kubectl delete destinationrule default -n httptools
    $ kubectl delete secrets istio-ingressgateway-certs istio-ingressgateway-ca-certs alb-certs -n istio-system
    $ rm -rf nlb_certs alb_certs trustid-x3-root.pem trusted.crt
    $ unset CLUSTER_NAME ALB_INGRESS_DOMAIN ALB_SECRET NLB_INGRESS_DOMAIN NLB_SECRET
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Shutdown the `httpbin` service:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete -f @samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml@ -n httptools
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Delete the `httptools` namespace:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete namespace httptools
    {{< /text >}}
