content/about/contribute/github/index.md, before:

---
title: Working with GitHub
description: Shows you how to use GitHub to work on Istio documentation.
weight: 20
aliases:
    - /docs/welcome/contribute/creating-a-pull-request.html
    - /docs/welcome/contribute/staging-your-changes.html
    - /docs/welcome/contribute/editing.html
    - /about/contribute/creating-a-pull-request
    - /about/contribute/editing
    - /about/contribute/staging-your-changes
keywords: [contribute]
---

We're excited that you're interested in contributing to improve and expand
our docs! Please take a few moments to get familiar with our procedures before
you get started.

To work on Istio documentation, you need to:

1. Create a [GitHub account](https://github.com).

1. Sign the [Contributor License
   Agreement](https://github.com/istio/community/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#contributor-license-agreements).

The documentation is published under the [Apache
2.0](https://github.com/istio/istio.io/blob/master/LICENSE) license.

## How to contribute

There are three ways you can contribute to the Istio documentation:

* If you want to edit an existing page, you can open up the page in your
  browser and select the **Edit This Page on GitHub** option from the gear menu
  at the top right of each page. This takes you to GitHub to edit and
  submit the changes.

* If you want to work on the site in general, follow the steps in our
  [How to add content section](#add).

* If you want to review an existing pull request (PR), follow the steps in our
  [How to review content section](#review)

Once your changes are merged, they show up immediately on
`preliminary.istio.io`. However, the changes only
show up on `istio.io` the next time we produce a new
release, which happens around once a quarter.

### How to add content {#add}

To add content you must create a fork of the repository and a PR from
your fork to the docs main repository. The following steps describe the
process:

<a class="btn btn-istio"
href="https://github.com/istio/istio.io/">Browse this site's source
code</a>

1.  Click the button above to visit the GitHub repository.

1.  Click the **Fork** button in the upper-right corner of the screen to
    create a copy of our repository in your GitHub account.

1.  Create a clone of your fork and make any changes you want.
1.  When you are ready to send those changes to us, push the changes to your
    fork.
1.  Go to the index page for your fork, and click **New Pull Request** to let
    us know about it.

### How to review content {#review}

If your review is small, simply comment on the PR directly. If you review the
content in detail, follow these steps:

1.  Leave a comment on the PR with the text `/hold`. This command prevents the
    PR from being merged before you are able to complete your review.

1.  Perform your detailed review. When possible leave specific comments
    directly on the files and lines affected.

1.  Provide suggestions to the PR owner in your comments when appropriate. For
    example:

    {{< text markdown >}}
    Use present tense to avoid verb congruence issues and
    to make the text easier to understand:

    ```suggestion

    Pilot maintains an abstract model of the mesh.

    ```
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Publish your review to share your comments and suggestions with us and the
    PR owner. Request changes as the review warrants.

    {{< warning_icon >}} If you do not publish your review, the PR owner and
    the community cannot see your comments.

1.  Once you publish your review, leave a comment with the text:
    `/hold cancel`. That command unblocks the PR from being merged.

## Previewing your work

When you submit a pull request, your PR page on GitHub shows a link to a
staging site built automatically for your PR. This is useful for you to see
what the final page looks like to end-users. Folks reviewing your
pull request also use this staging site to make sure everything looks good.

If you created a fork of the repository, you can preview your changes locally.
See this
[README](https://github.com/istio/istio.io/blob/master/README.md) for
instructions.

## Becoming a member of an Istio repository

The Istio Technical Oversight Committee has agreed on the following formal
process to become a member of an Istio repository on GitHub. Being a member
means the following things for contributors:

* Members can be assigned bugs to fix.
* Members can assign or change bugs.

You don't need to become a member to be an effective contributor. Non-members
can submit pull requests, submit bug reports, do code reviews, etc.

To become a member, individuals must fulfill the following requirements:

* The individual has made a contribution to the Istio repository.

* The individual is sponsored by at least two existing members.

* The individual has applied using the [application form](https://github.com/istio/community/issues/new?template=organization-membership-request.md).

Commit message:

Point to existing content related to community roles.
Signed-off-by: rcaballeromx <grca@google.com>

content/about/contribute/github/index.md, after:

---
title: Working with GitHub
description: Shows you how to use GitHub to work on Istio documentation.
weight: 20
aliases:
    - /docs/welcome/contribute/creating-a-pull-request.html
    - /docs/welcome/contribute/staging-your-changes.html
    - /docs/welcome/contribute/editing.html
    - /about/contribute/creating-a-pull-request
    - /about/contribute/editing
    - /about/contribute/staging-your-changes
keywords: [contribute, community, GitHub, PR]
---

We're excited that you're interested in contributing to improve and expand
our docs! Please take a few moments to get familiar with our procedures before
you get started.

To work on Istio documentation, you need to:

1. Create a [GitHub account](https://github.com).

1. Sign the [Contributor License
   Agreement](https://github.com/istio/community/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#contributor-license-agreements).

The documentation is published under the [Apache
2.0](https://github.com/istio/istio.io/blob/master/LICENSE) license.

## How to contribute

There are three ways you can contribute to the Istio documentation:

* If you want to edit an existing page, you can open up the page in your
  browser and select the **Edit This Page on GitHub** option from the gear menu
  at the top right of each page. This takes you to GitHub to edit and
  submit the changes.

* If you want to work on the site in general, follow the steps in our
  [How to add content section](#add).

* If you want to review an existing pull request (PR), follow the steps in our
  [How to review content section](#review)

Once your changes are merged, they show up immediately on
`preliminary.istio.io`. However, the changes only
show up on `istio.io` the next time we produce a new
release, which happens around once a quarter.

### How to add content {#add}

To add content you must create a fork of the repository and a PR from
your fork to the docs main repository. The following steps describe the
process:

<a class="btn btn-istio"
href="https://github.com/istio/istio.io/">Browse this site's source
code</a>

1.  Click the button above to visit the GitHub repository.

1.  Click the **Fork** button in the upper-right corner of the screen to
    create a copy of our repository in your GitHub account.

1.  Create a clone of your fork and make any changes you want.
1.  When you are ready to send those changes to us, push the changes to your
    fork.
1.  Go to the index page for your fork, and click **New Pull Request** to let
    us know about it.

### How to review content {#review}

If your review is small, simply comment on the PR directly. If you review the
content in detail, follow these steps:

1.  Leave a comment on the PR with the text `/hold`. This command prevents the
    PR from being merged before you are able to complete your review.

1.  Perform your detailed review. When possible leave specific comments
    directly on the files and lines affected.

1.  Provide suggestions to the PR owner in your comments when appropriate. For
    example:

    {{< text markdown >}}
    Use present tense to avoid verb congruence issues and
    to make the text easier to understand:

    ```suggestion

    Pilot maintains an abstract model of the mesh.

    ```
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Publish your review to share your comments and suggestions with us and the
    PR owner. Request changes as the review warrants.

    {{< warning_icon >}} If you do not publish your review, the PR owner and
    the community cannot see your comments.

1.  Once you publish your review, leave a comment with the text:
    `/hold cancel`. That command unblocks the PR from being merged.

## Previewing your work

When you submit a pull request, your PR page on GitHub shows a link to a
staging site built automatically for your PR. This is useful for you to see
what the final page looks like to end-users. Folks reviewing your
pull request also use this staging site to make sure everything looks good.

If you created a fork of the repository, you can preview your changes locally.
See this
[README](https://github.com/istio/istio.io/blob/master/README.md) for
instructions.

## Istio community roles

Depending on your contributions and responsibilities, there are several roles
you can assume.

Visit our [role summary page](https://github.com/istio/community/blob/master/ROLES.md#role-summary)
to learn about the roles, the related requirements and responsibilities, and
the privileges associated with the roles.

Visit our [community page](https://github.com/istio/community) to learn more
about the Istio community in general.
