content/boilerplates/notes/1.1.6.md, before:

## Bug fixes

- Fix Galley Helm charts so that the `validatingwebhookconfiguration` object can now deployed to a namespace other than `istio-system` ([Issue 13625](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/13625)).
- Additional Helm chart fixes for anti-affinity support: fix `gatewaypodAntiAffinityRequiredDuringScheduling` and `podAntiAffinityLabelSelector` match expressions and fix the default value for `podAntiAffinityLabelSelector` ([Issue 13892](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/13892)).
- Make Pilot handle a condition where Envoy continues to request routes for a deleted gateway while listeners are still draining ([Issue 13739](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/13739)).

## Small enhancements

- Add access logs for the `passthrough` listener.
- Make Pilot tolerate unknown JSON fields to make it easier to rollback to older versions during upgrade.
- Add support for fallback secrets to `SDS` which Envoy can use instead of waiting indefinitely for late or non-existent secrets during startup ([Issue 13853](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/13853)).

Commit message:

Make it clear that access logging only happens for the passthrough listener if access logging is enabled.

content/boilerplates/notes/1.1.6.md, after:

## Bug fixes

- Fix Galley Helm charts so that the `validatingwebhookconfiguration` object can now deployed to a namespace other than `istio-system` ([Issue 13625](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/13625)).
- Additional Helm chart fixes for anti-affinity support: fix `gatewaypodAntiAffinityRequiredDuringScheduling` and `podAntiAffinityLabelSelector` match expressions and fix the default value for `podAntiAffinityLabelSelector` ([Issue 13892](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/13892)).
- Make Pilot handle a condition where Envoy continues to request routes for a deleted gateway while listeners are still draining ([Issue 13739](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/13739)).

## Small enhancements

- If access logs are enabled, `passthrough` listener requests will be logged.
- Make Pilot tolerate unknown JSON fields to make it easier to rollback to older versions during upgrade.
- Add support for fallback secrets to `SDS` which Envoy can use instead of waiting indefinitely for late or non-existent secrets during startup ([Issue 13853](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/13853)).
