content/docs/setup/kubernetes/istio-cni-install/index.md, before:

---
title: Istio CNI Install Options
description: Instructions for installing and using Istio with the Istio CNI plugin to allow Istio users to deploy services via lower privileged RBAC.  The Istio CNI plugin removes the requirement for the privileged, `NET_ADMIN` initialization container in the users' pods in the mesh.
weight: 70
keywords: [kubernetes,cni,sidecar,proxy,network,helm]
---

By default Istio injects an `initContainer`, `istio-init`, in pods deployed in the mesh.  The `istio-init`
container sets up the pod network traffic redirection to/from the Istio sidecar proxy.  This requires the user
or service-account deploying pods to the mesh to have high enough Kubernetes RBAC permissions to deploy
`NET_ADMIN` containers.  Mandating Istio users have such high Kubernetes RBAC permissions is problematic for
some organizations' security compliance.  The Istio CNI plugin is a replacement for the `istio-init`
container that performs the same networking functionality but without requiring Istio users to have high
Kubernetes RBAC permissions.

The Istio CNI plugin performs the Istio mesh pod traffic redirection in the Kubernetes pod lifecycle's network
setup phase, thereby removing this level of RBAC requirement from users deploying pods into the Istio mesh.  The
[Istio CNI plugin](https://github.com/istio/cni) replaces the functionality provided by the `istio-init` container.

## Prerequisites

1.  Kubernetes installed with the container runtime supporting CNI and `kubelets` configured
    with the main [CNI](https://github.com/containernetworking/cni) plugin enabled via `--network-plugin=cni`.
    *  This is enabled for the Kubernetes installation for IBM Cloud IKS, Azure AKS, and AWS EKS clusters.
    *  For Google Cloud GKE clusters, the
       [network-policy](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/network-policy) feature
       must be enabled to have Kubernetes configured with `network-plugin=cni`.

1.  Kubernetes installed with the [ServiceAccount admission controller](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#serviceaccount) enabled.
    *  The Kubernetes documentation highly recommends this for all Kubernetes installations
       where `ServiceAccounts` are utilized.

## Installation

1.  Determine the Kubernetes environment's CNI plugin `--cni-bin-dir` and `--cni-conf-dir` settings.

    1.  Refer to the [Hosted Kubernetes Usage](#hosted-kubernetes-usage) section for any non-default
        settings required.

1.  Add the `--set istio_cni.enabled=true` setting to the [Istio Installation with Helm procedure](/docs/setup/kubernetes/helm-install/) to include the installation of the Istio CNI plugin. For example:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ helm template install/kubernetes/helm/istio --name istio --namespace istio-system \
      --set istio_cni.enabled=true > $HOME/istio.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

    > Refer to the full set of `istio-cni` Helm parameters in the chart's [`values.yaml`](https://github.com/istio/cni/blob/master/deployments/kubernetes/install/helm/istio-cni/values.yaml).

### Example: Excluding specific Kubernetes namespaces

The following example configures the Istio CNI plugin to ignore pods in the namespaces `istio-system`,
`foo_ns`, and `bar_ns`.

1.  Create an Istio manifest with the Istio CNI plugin enabled and override the default
    configuration of the `istio-cni` Helm chart's `logLevel` and `excludeNamespaces` parameters:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ helm template install/kubernetes/helm/istio --name istio --namespace istio-system \
    --set istio_cni.enabled=true \
    --set istio-cni.logLevel=info \
    --set istio-cni.excludeNamespaces={"istio-system,foo_ns,bar_ns"} > $HOME/istio.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

### Helm chart parameters

| Option | Values | Default | Description |
|--------|--------|---------|-------------|
| `hub` | | | The container registry to pull the `install-cni` image. |
| `tag` | | | The container tag to use to pull the `install-cni` image. |
| `logLevel` | `panic`, `fatal`, `error`, `warn`, `info`, `debug` | `warn` | Logging level for CNI binary. |
| `excludeNamespaces` | `[]string` | `[ istio-system ]` | List of namespaces to exclude from Istio pod check. |
| `cniBinDir` | | `/opt/cni/bin` | Must be the same as the environment's `--cni-bin-dir` setting (`kubelet` parameter). |
| `cniConfDir` | | `/etc/cni/net.d` | Must be the same as the environment's `--cni-conf-dir` setting (`kubelet` parameter). |
| `cniConfFileName` | | None | Leave unset to auto-find the first file in the `cni-conf-dir` (as `kubelet` does).  Primarily used for testing `install-cni` plugin configuration.  If set, `install-cni` will inject the plugin configuration into this file in the `cni-conf-dir`. |

### Hosted Kubernetes Usage

Not all hosted Kubernetes clusters are created with the `kubelet` configured to use the CNI plugin so
compatibility with this `istio-cni` solution is not ubiquitous.  The `istio-cni` plugin is expected
to work with any hosted Kubernetes leveraging CNI plugins.  The below table indicates the known CNI status
of many common Kubernetes environments.

| Hosted Cluster Type | Uses CNI | Non-default settings |
|---------------------|----------|----------------------|
| GKE 1.9+ default | N | |
| GKE 1.9+ w/ [network-policy](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/network-policy) | Y | `istio-cni.cniBinDir=/home/kubernetes/bin` |
| IKS (IBM cloud) | Y | |
| EKS (AWS) | Y | |
| AKS (Azure) | Y | |
| Red Hat OpenShift 3.10+ | Y | |

#### GKE Setup

1.  Refer to the procedure to [prepare a GKE cluster for Istio](/docs/setup/kubernetes/platform-setup/gke/) and
    enable [network-policy](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/network-policy) in your cluster.
    *  Note for existing clusters this redeploys the nodes.

1.  Install Istio via Helm including these options
    `--set istio_cni.enabled=true --set istio-cni.cniBinDir=/home/kubernetes/bin`

## Operational Details

The Istio CNI plugin handles Kubernetes pod create and delete events and does the following:

1.  Identify Istio user application pods with Istio sidecars requiring traffic redirection
1.  Perform pod network namespace details to redirect traffic to/from the Istio sidecar

### Identifying pods requiring traffic redirection

The Istio CNI plugin identifies pods requiring traffic redirection to/from the
accompanying Istio proxy sidecar by checking that the pod meets all of the following conditions:

1.  The pod is NOT in a Kubernetes namespace in the configured `exclude_namespaces` list
1.  The pod has a container named `istio-proxy`
1.  The pod has more than 1 container
1.  The pod has no annotation with key `sidecar.istio.io/inject` OR the value of the annotation is `true`

### Traffic redirection details

To redirect traffic in the application pod's network namespace to/from the Istio proxy sidecar, the Istio
CNI plugin configures the namespace's iptables.  The following table describes the parameters to the
redirect functionality.  The default values for the parameters are able to be overridden by setting the
corresponding application pod annotation key.

| Annotation Key | Values | Default | Description |
|----------------|--------|---------|-------------|
| `sidecar.istio.io/interceptionMode`| `REDIRECT`, `TPROXY` | `REDIRECT` | The iptables redirect mode to use. |
| `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/includeOutboundIPRanges` | `<IPCidr1>,<IPCidr2>,...` | "*" | Optional comma separated list of IP ranges in CIDR form to redirect to the sidecar proxy.  The default value of "*" redirects all traffic. |
| `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeOutboundIPRanges` | `<IPCidr1>,<IPCidr2>,...` | | Optional comma separated list of IP ranges in CIDR form to be excluded from redirection.  Only applies when `includeOutboundIPRanges` is "*". |
| `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/includeInboundPorts` | `<port1>,<port2>,...` | Pod's list of `containerPorts` | Comma separated list of inbound ports for which traffic is to be redirected to the Istio proxy sidecar.  The value of "*" redirects all ports. |
| `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeInboundPorts` | `<port1>,<port2>,...` | | Comma separated list of inbound ports to be excluded from redirection to the Istio sidecar proxy.  Only valid when `includeInboundPorts` is "*". |

### Logging

The Istio CNI plugin is run by the container runtime process space, and, therefore, the log entries are added under
the `kubelet` process.

## Compatibility with other CNI plugins

The Istio CNI plugin maintains compatibility with the same set of CNI plugins as the current `NET_ADMIN`
`istio-init` container.

The Istio CNI plugin operates as a chained CNI plugin which means its configuration is added to the existing
CNI plugins configuration as a new configuration list element.  See the
[CNI specification reference](https://github.com/containernetworking/cni/blob/master/SPEC.md#network-configuration-lists) for further details.
When a pod is created or deleted, the container runtime invokes each plugin in the list in order.  The Istio
CNI plugin only performs actions to setup the application pod's traffic redirection to the injected Istio proxy
sidecar (using `iptables` in the pod's network namespace) and _should_ have no effect on the operations
performed by the base CNI plugin actually configuring the pod's networking setup.

Commit message:

Add sidecar injection compatibility info

content/docs/setup/kubernetes/istio-cni-install/index.md, after:

---
title: Istio CNI Installation
description: Instructions for installing and using Istio with the Istio CNI plugin to allow Istio users to deploy services via lower privileged RBAC.  The Istio CNI plugin removes the requirement for the privileged, `NET_ADMIN` initialization container in the users' pods in the mesh.
weight: 70
keywords: [kubernetes,cni,sidecar,proxy,network,helm]
---

By default Istio injects an `initContainer`, `istio-init`, in pods deployed in the mesh.  The `istio-init`
container sets up the pod network traffic redirection to/from the Istio sidecar proxy.  This requires the user
or service-account deploying pods to the mesh to have high enough Kubernetes RBAC permissions to deploy
[`NET_ADMIN` containers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/security-context/#set-capabilities-for-a-container).  Requiring Istio users to have such high Kubernetes RBAC permissions is problematic for
some organizations' security compliance.  The Istio CNI plugin is a replacement for the `istio-init`
container that performs the same networking functionality but without requiring Istio users to have high
Kubernetes RBAC permissions.

The Istio CNI plugin performs the Istio mesh pod traffic redirection in the Kubernetes pod lifecycle's network
setup phase, thereby removing this level of RBAC requirement from users deploying pods into the Istio mesh.  The
[Istio CNI plugin](https://github.com/istio/cni) replaces the functionality provided by the `istio-init` container.

## Prerequisites

1.  Kubernetes installed with the container runtime supporting CNI and `kubelets` configured
    with the main [CNI](https://github.com/containernetworking/cni) plugin enabled via `--network-plugin=cni`.
    *  This is enabled for the Kubernetes installation for IBM Cloud IKS, Azure AKS, and AWS EKS clusters.
    *  For Google Cloud GKE clusters, the
       [network-policy](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/network-policy) feature
       must be enabled to have Kubernetes configured with `network-plugin=cni`.

1.  Kubernetes installed with the [ServiceAccount admission controller](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#serviceaccount) enabled.
    *  The Kubernetes documentation highly recommends this for all Kubernetes installations
       where `ServiceAccounts` are utilized.

## Installation

1.  Determine the Kubernetes environment's CNI plugin `--cni-bin-dir` and `--cni-conf-dir` settings.

    1.  Refer to the [Hosted Kubernetes Usage](#hosted-kubernetes-usage) section for any non-default
        settings required.

1.  Add the `--set istio_cni.enabled=true` setting to the [Istio Installation with Helm procedure](/docs/setup/kubernetes/helm-install/) to include the installation of the Istio CNI plugin. For example:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ helm template install/kubernetes/helm/istio --name istio --namespace istio-system \
      --set istio_cni.enabled=true > $HOME/istio.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

    > Refer to the full set of `istio-cni` Helm parameters in the chart's [`values.yaml`](https://github.com/istio/cni/blob/master/deployments/kubernetes/install/helm/istio-cni/values.yaml).

### Example: Excluding specific Kubernetes namespaces

The following example configures the Istio CNI plugin to ignore pods in the namespaces `istio-system`,
`foo_ns`, and `bar_ns`.

1.  Create an Istio manifest with the Istio CNI plugin enabled and override the default
    configuration of the `istio-cni` Helm chart's `logLevel` and `excludeNamespaces` parameters:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ helm template install/kubernetes/helm/istio --name istio --namespace istio-system \
    --set istio_cni.enabled=true \
    --set istio-cni.logLevel=info \
    --set istio-cni.excludeNamespaces={"istio-system,foo_ns,bar_ns"} > $HOME/istio.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

### Helm chart parameters

| Option | Values | Default | Description |
|--------|--------|---------|-------------|
| `hub` | | | The container registry to pull the `install-cni` image. |
| `tag` | | | The container tag to use to pull the `install-cni` image. |
| `logLevel` | `panic`, `fatal`, `error`, `warn`, `info`, `debug` | `warn` | Logging level for CNI binary. |
| `excludeNamespaces` | `[]string` | `[ istio-system ]` | List of namespaces to exclude from Istio pod check. |
| `cniBinDir` | | `/opt/cni/bin` | Must be the same as the environment's `--cni-bin-dir` setting (`kubelet` parameter). |
| `cniConfDir` | | `/etc/cni/net.d` | Must be the same as the environment's `--cni-conf-dir` setting (`kubelet` parameter). |
| `cniConfFileName` | | None | Leave unset to auto-find the first file in the `cni-conf-dir` (as `kubelet` does).  Primarily used for testing `install-cni` plugin configuration.  If set, `install-cni` will inject the plugin configuration into this file in the `cni-conf-dir`. |

### Hosted Kubernetes Usage

Not all hosted Kubernetes clusters are created with the `kubelet` configured to use the CNI plugin so
compatibility with this `istio-cni` solution is not ubiquitous.  The `istio-cni` plugin is expected
to work with any hosted Kubernetes leveraging CNI plugins.  The below table indicates the known CNI status
of many common Kubernetes environments.

| Hosted Cluster Type | Uses CNI | Required Non-default settings |
|---------------------|----------|-------------------------------|
| GKE 1.9+ default | N | |
| GKE 1.9+ w/ [network-policy](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/network-policy) | Y | `istio-cni.cniBinDir=/home/kubernetes/bin` |
| IKS (IBM cloud) | Y | |
| EKS (AWS) | Y | |
| AKS (Azure) | Y | |
| Red Hat OpenShift 3.10+ | Y | |

#### GKE Setup

1.  Refer to the procedure to [prepare a GKE cluster for Istio](/docs/setup/kubernetes/platform-setup/gke/) and
    enable [network-policy](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/network-policy) in your cluster.
    *  Note for existing clusters this redeploys the nodes.

1.  Install Istio via Helm including these options
    `--set istio_cni.enabled=true --set istio-cni.cniBinDir=/home/kubernetes/bin`

## Sidecar Injection Compatibility

The use of the Istio CNI plugin requires Kubernetes pods to be deployed with a sidecar injection method
that uses the `istio-sidecar-injector` configmap created from the Helm installation with the
`istio_cni.enabled=true`.  Refer to [Istio sidecar injection](/docs/setup/kubernetes/sidecar-injection/)
for details about Istio sidecar injection methods.

The following sidecar injection methods are supported for use with the Istio CNI plugin:

1.  [Automatic sidecar injection](/docs/setup/kubernetes/sidecar-injection/#automatic-sidecar-injection)
1.  Manual sidecar injection with the `istio-sidecar-injector` configmap
    1.  `istioctl kube-inject` using the configmap directly:

        {{< text bash >}}
        $ istioctl kube-inject -f deployment.yaml -o deployment-injected.yaml --injectConfigMapName istio-sidecar-injector
        $ kubectl apply -f deployment-injected.yaml
        {{< /text >}}

    1.  `istioctl kube-inject` using a file created from the configmap:

        {{< text bash >}}
        $ kubectl -n istio-system get configmap istio-sidecar-injector -o=jsonpath='{.data.config}' > inject-config.yaml
        $ istioctl kube-inject -f deployment.yaml -o deployment-injected.yaml --injectConfigFile inject-config.yaml
        $ kubectl apply -f deployment-injected.yaml
        {{< /text >}}

## Operational Details

The Istio CNI plugin handles Kubernetes pod create and delete events and does the following:

1.  Identify Istio user application pods with Istio sidecars requiring traffic redirection
1.  Perform pod network namespace details to redirect traffic to/from the Istio sidecar

### Identifying pods requiring traffic redirection

The Istio CNI plugin identifies pods requiring traffic redirection to/from the
accompanying Istio proxy sidecar by checking that the pod meets all of the following conditions:

1.  The pod is NOT in a Kubernetes namespace in the configured `exclude_namespaces` list
1.  The pod has a container named `istio-proxy`
1.  The pod has more than 1 container
1.  The pod has no annotation with key `sidecar.istio.io/inject` OR the value of the annotation is `true`

### Traffic redirection details

To redirect traffic in the application pod's network namespace to/from the Istio proxy sidecar, the Istio
CNI plugin configures the namespace's iptables.  The following table describes the parameters to the
redirect functionality.  The default values for the parameters are able to be overridden by setting the
corresponding application pod annotation key.

| Annotation Key | Values | Default | Description |
|----------------|--------|---------|-------------|
| `sidecar.istio.io/interceptionMode`| `REDIRECT`, `TPROXY` | `REDIRECT` | The iptables redirect mode to use. |
| `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/includeOutboundIPRanges` | `<IPCidr1>,<IPCidr2>,...` | "*" | Optional comma separated list of IP ranges in CIDR form to redirect to the sidecar proxy.  The default value of "*" redirects all traffic. |
| `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeOutboundIPRanges` | `<IPCidr1>,<IPCidr2>,...` | | Optional comma separated list of IP ranges in CIDR form to be excluded from redirection.  Only applies when `includeOutboundIPRanges` is "*". |
| `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/includeInboundPorts` | `<port1>,<port2>,...` | Pod's list of `containerPorts` | Comma separated list of inbound ports for which traffic is to be redirected to the Istio proxy sidecar.  The value of "*" redirects all ports. |
| `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeInboundPorts` | `<port1>,<port2>,...` | | Comma separated list of inbound ports to be excluded from redirection to the Istio sidecar proxy.  Only valid when `includeInboundPorts` is "*". |

### Logging

The Istio CNI plugin is run by the container runtime process space, and, therefore, the log entries are added under
the `kubelet` process.

## Compatibility with other CNI plugins

The Istio CNI plugin maintains compatibility with the same set of CNI plugins as the current `NET_ADMIN`
`istio-init` container.

The Istio CNI plugin operates as a chained CNI plugin which means its configuration is added to the existing
CNI plugins configuration as a new configuration list element.  See the
[CNI specification reference](https://github.com/containernetworking/cni/blob/master/SPEC.md#network-configuration-lists) for further details.
When a pod is created or deleted, the container runtime invokes each plugin in the list in order.  The Istio
CNI plugin only performs actions to setup the application pod's traffic redirection to the injected Istio proxy
sidecar (using `iptables` in the pod's network namespace) and _should_ have no effect on the operations
performed by the base CNI plugin actually configuring the pod's networking setup.
