content/docs/setup/kubernetes/multicluster-install/gateways/index.md, before:

---
title: Gateway connectivity
description: Install an Istio mesh across multiple Kubernetes clusters using Istio Gateway to reach remote pods.
weight: 2
keywords: [kubernetes,multicluster,federation,gateway]
---

Instructions for installing an Istio [multicluster service mesh](/docs/concepts/multicluster-deployments/)
where Kubernetes cluster services and applications in each cluster are limited to remote communication using gateway IPs.

Instead of using a central Istio control plane to manage the mesh,
in this configuration each cluster has an **identical** Istio control plane
installation, each managing its own endpoints.
All of the clusters are under a shared administrative control for the purposes of
policy enforcement and security.

A single Istio service mesh across the clusters is achieved by replicating
shared services and namespaces and using a common root CA in all of the clusters.
Cross-cluster communication occurs over Istio Gateways of the respective clusters.

{{< image width="80%" link="./multicluster-with-gateways.svg" caption="Istio mesh spanning multiple Kubernetes clusters using Istio Gateway to reach remote pods" >}}

## Prerequisites

* Two or more Kubernetes clusters with **1.10 or newer**.

* Authority to deploy the [Istio control plane using Helm](/docs/setup/kubernetes/helm-install/)
on **each** Kubernetes cluster.

* The IP address of the `istio-ingressgateway` service in each cluster must
  be accessible from every other cluster.

* A **Root CA**. Cross cluster communication requires mTLS connection
  between services. To enable mTLS communication across clusters, each
  cluster's Citadel will be configured with intermediate CA credentials
  generated by a shared root CA. For illustration purposes, we use a
  sample root CA certificate available as part of Istio install
  under the `samples/certs` directory.

## Deploy Istio control plane in each cluster

1. Generate intermediate CA certs for each cluster's Citadel from your
organization's root CA. The shared root CA enables mTLS communication
across different clusters. For illustration purposes, we use
the sample root certificates as the intermediate certificate.

1. In every cluster, create a Kubernetes secret for your generated CA certs
   using a command similar to the following:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create namespace istio-system
    $ kubectl create secret generic cacerts -n istio-system \
        --from-file=samples/certs/ca-cert.pem \
        --from-file=samples/certs/ca-key.pem \
        --from-file=samples/certs/root-cert.pem \
        --from-file=samples/certs/cert-chain.pem
    {{< /text >}}

1. Install the Istio control plane in every cluster using the following commands:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ helm template install/kubernetes/helm/istio --name istio --namespace istio-system \
        -f install/kubernetes/helm/istio/values-istio-multicluster-gateways.yaml > $HOME/istio.yaml
    $ kubectl apply -f $HOME/istio.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

For further details and customization options, refer to the [Installation
with Helm](/docs/setup/kubernetes/helm-install/) instructions.

## Setup DNS

Providing DNS resolution for services in remote clusters will allow
existing applications to function unmodified, as applications typically
expect to resolve services by their DNS names and access the resulting
IP. Istio itself does not use the DNS for routing requests between
services. Services local to a cluster share a common DNS suffix
(e.g., `svc.cluster.local`). Kubernetes DNS provides DNS resolution for these
services.

To provide a similar setup for services from remote clusters, we name
services from remote clusters in the format
`<name>.<namespace>.global`. Istio also ships with a CoreDNS server that
will provide DNS resolution for these services. In order to utilize this
DNS, Kubernetes' DNS needs to be configured to point to CoreDNS as the DNS
server for the `.global` DNS domain. Create the following ConfigMap (or
update an existing one):

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: kube-dns
  namespace: kube-system
data:
  stubDomains: |
    {"global": ["$(kubectl get svc -n istio-system istiocoredns -o jsonpath={.spec.clusterIP})"]}
EOF
{{< /text >}}

## Configure application services

Every service in a given cluster that needs to be accessed from a different remote
cluster requires a `ServiceEntry` configuration in the remote cluster.
The host used in the service entry should be of the form `<name>.<namespace>.global`
where name and namespace correspond to the service's name and namespace respectively.
Visit our [multicluster using gateways](/docs/examples/multicluster/gateways/)
example for detailed configuration instructions.

## Summary

Using Istio gateways, a common root CA, and service entries, you can configure
a single Istio service mesh across multiple Kubernetes clusters.
Once configured this way, traffic can be transparently routed to remote clusters
without any application involvement.
Although this approach requires a certain amount of manual configuration for
remote service access, the service entry creation process could be automated.

Commit message:

Add uninstall instructions for gateway multicluster

content/docs/setup/kubernetes/multicluster-install/gateways/index.md, after:

---
title: Gateway connectivity
description: Install an Istio mesh across multiple Kubernetes clusters using Istio Gateway to reach remote pods.
weight: 2
keywords: [kubernetes,multicluster,federation,gateway]
---

Instructions for installing an Istio [multicluster service mesh](/docs/concepts/multicluster-deployments/)
where Kubernetes cluster services and applications in each cluster are limited to remote communication using gateway IPs.

Instead of using a central Istio control plane to manage the mesh,
in this configuration each cluster has an **identical** Istio control plane
installation, each managing its own endpoints.
All of the clusters are under a shared administrative control for the purposes of
policy enforcement and security.

A single Istio service mesh across the clusters is achieved by replicating
shared services and namespaces and using a common root CA in all of the clusters.
Cross-cluster communication occurs over Istio Gateways of the respective clusters.

{{< image width="80%" link="./multicluster-with-gateways.svg" caption="Istio mesh spanning multiple Kubernetes clusters using Istio Gateway to reach remote pods" >}}

## Prerequisites

* Two or more Kubernetes clusters with **1.10 or newer**.

* Authority to deploy the [Istio control plane using Helm](/docs/setup/kubernetes/helm-install/)
on **each** Kubernetes cluster.

* The IP address of the `istio-ingressgateway` service in each cluster must
  be accessible from every other cluster.

* A **Root CA**. Cross cluster communication requires mTLS connection
  between services. To enable mTLS communication across clusters, each
  cluster's Citadel will be configured with intermediate CA credentials
  generated by a shared root CA. For illustration purposes, we use a
  sample root CA certificate available as part of Istio install
  under the `samples/certs` directory.

## Deploy Istio control plane in each cluster

1. Generate intermediate CA certs for each cluster's Citadel from your
    organization's root CA. The shared root CA enables mTLS communication
    across different clusters. For illustration purposes, we use
    the sample root certificates as the intermediate certificate.

1. In **every cluster**, create a Kubernetes secret for your generated CA certs
   using a command similar to the following:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create namespace istio-system
    $ kubectl create secret generic cacerts -n istio-system \
        --from-file=samples/certs/ca-cert.pem \
        --from-file=samples/certs/ca-key.pem \
        --from-file=samples/certs/root-cert.pem \
        --from-file=samples/certs/cert-chain.pem
    {{< /text >}}

1. Generate a multicluster-gateways Istio configuration file using `helm`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ helm template install/kubernetes/helm/istio --name istio --namespace istio-system \
        -f install/kubernetes/helm/istio/values-istio-multicluster-gateways.yaml > $HOME/istio.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

    For further details and customization options, refer to the
    [Installation with Helm](/docs/setup/kubernetes/helm-install/) instructions.

1. Run the following command in **every cluster** to deploy the Istio control planes:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f $HOME/istio.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

## Setup DNS

Providing DNS resolution for services in remote clusters will allow
existing applications to function unmodified, as applications typically
expect to resolve services by their DNS names and access the resulting
IP. Istio itself does not use the DNS for routing requests between
services. Services local to a cluster share a common DNS suffix
(e.g., `svc.cluster.local`). Kubernetes DNS provides DNS resolution for these
services.

To provide a similar setup for services from remote clusters, we name
services from remote clusters in the format
`<name>.<namespace>.global`. Istio also ships with a CoreDNS server that
will provide DNS resolution for these services. In order to utilize this
DNS, Kubernetes' DNS needs to be configured to point to CoreDNS as the DNS
server for the `.global` DNS domain. Create the following ConfigMap (or
update an existing one):

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: kube-dns
  namespace: kube-system
data:
  stubDomains: |
    {"global": ["$(kubectl get svc -n istio-system istiocoredns -o jsonpath={.spec.clusterIP})"]}
EOF
{{< /text >}}

## Configure application services

Every service in a given cluster that needs to be accessed from a different remote
cluster requires a `ServiceEntry` configuration in the remote cluster.
The host used in the service entry should be of the form `<name>.<namespace>.global`
where name and namespace correspond to the service's name and namespace respectively.
Visit our [multicluster using gateways](/docs/examples/multicluster/gateways/)
example for detailed configuration instructions.

## Uninstall instructions

Uninstall Istio by running the following commands on **every cluster**:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl delete -f $HOME/istio.yaml
$ kubectl delete ns istio-system
{{< /text >}}

## Summary

Using Istio gateways, a common root CA, and service entries, you can configure
a single Istio service mesh across multiple Kubernetes clusters.
Once configured this way, traffic can be transparently routed to remote clusters
without any application involvement.
Although this approach requires a certain amount of manual configuration for
remote service access, the service entry creation process could be automated.
