content/en/docs/setup/additional-setup/requirements/index.md, before:

---
title: Pods and Services
description:  Prepare your Kubernetes pods and services to run in an Istio-enabled cluster.
weight: 5
aliases:
    - /docs/setup/kubernetes/spec-requirements/
    - /docs/setup/kubernetes/prepare/spec-requirements/
    - /docs/setup/kubernetes/prepare/requirements/
    - /docs/setup/kubernetes/additional-setup/requirements/
keywords: [kubernetes,sidecar,sidecar-injection]
---

To be a part of an Istio service mesh, pods and services in a Kubernetes
cluster must satisfy the following requirements:

- **Service association**: A pod must belong to at least one Kubernetes
  service even if the pod does NOT expose any port.
  If a pod belongs to multiple [Kubernetes services](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/),
  the services cannot use the same port number for different protocols, for
  instance HTTP and TCP.

- **Deployments with app and version labels**: We recommend adding an explicit
  `app` label and `version` label to deployments. Add the labels  to the
  deployment specification of pods deployed using the Kubernetes `Deployment`.
  The `app` and `version` labels add contextual information to the metrics and
  telemetry Istio collects.

    - The `app` label: Each deployment specification should have a distinct
      `app` label with a meaningful value. The `app` label is used to add
      contextual information in distributed tracing.

    - The `version` label: This label indicates the version of the application
      corresponding to the particular deployment.

- **Application UIDs**: Ensure your pods do **not** run applications as a user
  with the user ID (UID) value of **1337**.

- **`NET_ADMIN` capability**: If your cluster enforces pod security policies,
  pods must allow the `NET_ADMIN` capability. If you use the [Istio CNI Plugin](/docs/setup/additional-setup/cni/),
  this requirement no longer applies. To learn more about the `NET_ADMIN`
  capability, visit [Required Pod Capabilities](/docs/ops/setup/required-pod-capabilities/).

## Ports used by Istio

The following ports and protocols are used by Istio. Ensure that there are no TCP headless services using a TCP port used by one of Istio's services.

| Port | Protocol | Used by | Description |
|----|----|----|----|
| 8060 | HTTP | Citadel | GRPC server |
| 8080 | HTTP | Citadel agent | SDS service monitoring |
| 9090 | HTTP |  Prometheus | Prometheus |
| 9091 | HTTP | Mixer | Policy/Telemetry |
| 9876 | HTTP | Citadel, Citadel agent |  ControlZ user interface |
| 9901 | GRPC | Galley| Mesh Configuration Protocol |
| 15000 | TCP | Envoy | Envoy admin port (commands/diagnostics) |
| 15001 | TCP | Envoy | Envoy Outbound |
| 15006 | TCP | Envoy | Envoy Inbound |
| 15004 | HTTP | Mixer, Pilot | Policy/Telemetry - `mTLS` |
| 15010 | HTTP | Pilot | Pilot service - XDS pilot - discovery |
| 15011 | TCP | Pilot | Pilot service - `mTLS` - Proxy - discovery |
| 15014 | HTTP | Citadel, Citadel agent, Galley, Mixer, Pilot, Sidecar Injector | Control plane monitoring |
| 15020 | HTTP | Ingress Gateway | Pilot health checks |
| 15029 | HTTP | Kiali | Kiali User Interface |
| 15030 | HTTP | Prometheus | Prometheus User Interface |
| 15031 | HTTP | Grafana | Grafana User Interface |
| 15032 | HTTP | Tracing | Tracing User Interface |
| 15443 | TLS | Ingress and Egress Gateways | SNI |
| 15090 | HTTP | Mixer | Proxy |
| 42422 | TCP | Mixer | Telemetry - Prometheus |

Commit message:

update service name requirement page

content/en/docs/setup/additional-setup/requirements/index.md, after:

---
title: Pods and Services
description:  Prepare your Kubernetes pods and services to run in an Istio-enabled cluster.
weight: 5
aliases:
    - /docs/setup/kubernetes/spec-requirements/
    - /docs/setup/kubernetes/prepare/spec-requirements/
    - /docs/setup/kubernetes/prepare/requirements/
    - /docs/setup/kubernetes/additional-setup/requirements/
keywords: [kubernetes,sidecar,sidecar-injection]
---

To be a part of an Istio service mesh, pods and services in a Kubernetes
cluster must satisfy the following requirements:

- **Named service ports**: Service ports must be named. The port name key/value
  pairs must have the following syntax: `name: <protocol>[-<suffix>]`. To take
  advantage of Istio's routing features, replace `<protocol>` with one of the
  following values:

    - `grpc`
    - `http`
    - `http2`
    - `https`
    - `mongo`
    - `mysql`
    - `redis`
    - `tcp`
    - `tls`
    - `udp`

    For example, `name: http2-foo` or  `name: http` are valid port names, but
    `name: http2foo` is not. If the port name does not begin with a recognized
    prefix or if the port is unnamed, outbound HTTP or TCP traffic will be automatically detected.  Inbound traffic on the port is treated as
    plain TCP traffic unless the port [explicitly](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#defining-a-service)
    uses `Protocol: UDP` to signify a UDP port.
    
- **Service association**: A pod must belong to at least one Kubernetes
  service even if the pod does NOT expose any port.
  If a pod belongs to multiple [Kubernetes services](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/),
  the services cannot use the same port number for different protocols, for
  instance HTTP and TCP.

- **Deployments with app and version labels**: We recommend adding an explicit
  `app` label and `version` label to deployments. Add the labels  to the
  deployment specification of pods deployed using the Kubernetes `Deployment`.
  The `app` and `version` labels add contextual information to the metrics and
  telemetry Istio collects.

    - The `app` label: Each deployment specification should have a distinct
      `app` label with a meaningful value. The `app` label is used to add
      contextual information in distributed tracing.

    - The `version` label: This label indicates the version of the application
      corresponding to the particular deployment.

- **Application UIDs**: Ensure your pods do **not** run applications as a user
  with the user ID (UID) value of **1337**.

- **`NET_ADMIN` capability**: If your cluster enforces pod security policies,
  pods must allow the `NET_ADMIN` capability. If you use the [Istio CNI Plugin](/docs/setup/additional-setup/cni/),
  this requirement no longer applies. To learn more about the `NET_ADMIN`
  capability, visit [Required Pod Capabilities](/docs/ops/setup/required-pod-capabilities/).

## Ports used by Istio

The following ports and protocols are used by Istio. Ensure that there are no TCP headless services using a TCP port used by one of Istio's services.

| Port | Protocol | Used by | Description |
|----|----|----|----|
| 8060 | HTTP | Citadel | GRPC server |
| 8080 | HTTP | Citadel agent | SDS service monitoring |
| 9090 | HTTP |  Prometheus | Prometheus |
| 9091 | HTTP | Mixer | Policy/Telemetry |
| 9876 | HTTP | Citadel, Citadel agent |  ControlZ user interface |
| 9901 | GRPC | Galley| Mesh Configuration Protocol |
| 15000 | TCP | Envoy | Envoy admin port (commands/diagnostics) |
| 15001 | TCP | Envoy | Envoy Outbound |
| 15006 | TCP | Envoy | Envoy Inbound |
| 15004 | HTTP | Mixer, Pilot | Policy/Telemetry - `mTLS` |
| 15010 | HTTP | Pilot | Pilot service - XDS pilot - discovery |
| 15011 | TCP | Pilot | Pilot service - `mTLS` - Proxy - discovery |
| 15014 | HTTP | Citadel, Citadel agent, Galley, Mixer, Pilot, Sidecar Injector | Control plane monitoring |
| 15020 | HTTP | Ingress Gateway | Pilot health checks |
| 15029 | HTTP | Kiali | Kiali User Interface |
| 15030 | HTTP | Prometheus | Prometheus User Interface |
| 15031 | HTTP | Grafana | Grafana User Interface |
| 15032 | HTTP | Tracing | Tracing User Interface |
| 15443 | TLS | Ingress and Egress Gateways | SNI |
| 15090 | HTTP | Mixer | Proxy |
| 42422 | TCP | Mixer | Telemetry - Prometheus |
