content/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress.md, before:

---
title: Control Egress Traffic
description: Describes how to configure Istio to route traffic from services in the mesh to external services.
weight: 40
aliases:
    - /docs/tasks/egress.html
---

> This task uses the new [v1alpha3 traffic management API](/blog/2018/v1alpha3-routing/). The old API has been deprecated and will be removed in the next Istio release. If you need to use the old version, follow the docs [here](https://archive.istio.io/v0.7/docs/tasks/traffic-management/).

By default, Istio-enabled services are unable to access URLs outside of the cluster because
iptables is used in the pod to transparently redirect all outbound traffic to the sidecar proxy,
which only handles intra-cluster destinations.

This task describes how to configure Istio to expose external services to Istio-enabled clients.
You'll learn how to enable access to external services by defining
[ServiceEntry](/docs/reference/config/istio.networking.v1alpha3/#ServiceEntry) configurations,
or alternatively, to simply bypass the Istio proxy for a specific range of IPs.

## Before you begin

* Setup Istio by following the instructions in the
  [Installation guide](/docs/setup/).

*   Start the [sleep](https://github.com/istio/istio/tree/{{<branch_name>}}/samples/sleep) sample
    which will be used as a test source for external calls.

    If you have enabled [automatic sidecar injection](/docs/setup/kubernetes/sidecar-injection/#automatic-sidecar-injection), do

    ```command
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/sleep/sleep.yaml@
    ```
    otherwise, you have to manually inject the sidecar before deploying the `sleep` application:

    ```command
    $ kubectl apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f @samples/sleep/sleep.yaml@)
    ```

    Note that any pod that you can `exec` and `curl` from would do.

## Configuring Istio external services

Using Istio `ServiceEntry` configurations, you can access any publicly accessible service
from within your Istio cluster. In this task we will use
[httpbin.org](http://httpbin.org) and [www.google.com](https://www.google.com) as examples.

### Configuring the external services

1.  Create an `ServiceEntry` to allow access to an external HTTP service:

    ```bash
        cat <<EOF | istioctl create -f -
        apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
        kind: ServiceEntry
        metadata:
          name: httpbin-ext
        spec:
          hosts:
          - httpbin.org
          ports:
          - number: 80
            name: http
            protocol: HTTP
        EOF
    ```

1.  Create an `ServiceEntry` to allow access to an external HTTPS service:

    ```bash
        cat <<EOF | istioctl create -f -
        apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
        kind: ServiceEntry
        metadata:
          name: google-ext
        spec:
          hosts:
          - www.google.com
          ports:
          - number: 443
            name: https
            protocol: HTTPS
        EOF
    ```

### Make requests to the external services

1.  Exec into the pod being used as the test source. For example,
    if you are using the sleep service, run the following commands:

    ```command
    $ export SOURCE_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})
    $ kubectl exec -it $SOURCE_POD -c sleep bash
    ```

1.  Make a request to the external HTTP service:

    ```command
    $ curl http://httpbin.org/headers
    ```

1.  Make a request to the external HTTPS service:

    ```command
    $ curl https://www.google.com
    ```

### Setting route rules on an external service

Similar to inter-cluster requests, Istio
[routing rules](/docs/concepts/traffic-management/rules-configuration/)
can also be set for external services that are accessed using `ServiceEntry` configurations.
To illustrate we will use [istioctl](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/)
to set a timeout rule on calls to the httpbin.org service.

1.  From inside the pod being used as the test source, invoke the `/delay` endpoint of the httpbin.org external service:

    ```command
    $ kubectl exec -it $SOURCE_POD -c sleep bash
    $ time curl -o /dev/null -s -w "%{http_code}\n" http://httpbin.org/delay/5
    200

    real    0m5.024s
    user    0m0.003s
    sys     0m0.003s
    ```

    The request should return 200 (OK) in approximately 5 seconds.

1.  Exit the source pod and use `istioctl` to set a 3s timeout on calls to the httpbin.org external service:

    ```bash
        cat <<EOF | istioctl create -f -
        apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
        kind: VirtualService
        metadata:
          name: httpbin-ext
        spec:
          hosts:
            - httpbin.org
          http:
          - timeout: 3s
            route:
              - destination:
                  host: httpbin.org
                weight: 100
        EOF
    ```

1.  Wait a few seconds, then issue the _curl_ request again:

    ```command
    $ kubectl exec -it $SOURCE_POD -c sleep bash
    $ time curl -o /dev/null -s -w "%{http_code}\n" http://httpbin.org/delay/5
    504

    real    0m3.149s
    user    0m0.004s
    sys     0m0.004s
    ```

    This time a 504 (Gateway Timeout) appears after 3 seconds.
    Although httpbin.org was waiting 5 seconds, Istio cut off the request at 3 seconds.

## Calling external services directly

If you want to completely bypass Istio for a specific IP range,
you can configure the Envoy sidecars to prevent them from
[intercepting](/docs/concepts/traffic-management/request-routing/#communication-between-services)
the external requests. This can be done by setting the `global.proxy.includeIPRanges` variable of
[Helm](/docs/setup/kubernetes/helm-install/#customization-with-helm) and updating the `ConfigMap` _istio-sidecar-injector_ by `kubectl apply`. After _istio-sidecar-injector_ is updated, the value of `global.proxy.includeIPRanges` will affect all the future deployments of the application pods.

The simplest way to use the `global.proxy.includeIPRanges` variable is to pass it the IP range(s)
used for internal cluster services, thereby excluding external IPs from being redirected
to the sidecar proxy.
The values used for internal IP range(s), however, depends on where your cluster is running.
For example, with Minikube the range is 10.0.0.1&#47;24, so you would update your `ConfigMap` _istio-sidecar-injector_ like this:

```command
$ helm template @install/kubernetes/helm/istio@ <the flags you used to install Istio> --set global.proxy.includeIPRanges="10.0.0.1/24" -x @templates/sidecar-injector-configmap.yaml@ | kubectl apply -f -
```

Note that you should use the same Helm command you used [to install Istio](/docs/setup/kubernetes/helm-install),
in particular, the same value of the `--namespace` flag. In addition to the flags you used to install Istio, add `--set global.proxy.includeIPRanges="10.0.0.1/24" -x templates/sidecar-injector-configmap.yaml`.

Redeploy the _sleep_ application as described in the [Before you begin](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/#before-you-begin) section.

### Determine the value of `global.proxy.includeIPRanges`

Set the value of `global.proxy.includeIPRanges` according to your cluster provider.

#### IBM Cloud Private

1.  Get your `service_cluster_ip_range` from IBM Cloud Private configuration file under `cluster/config.yaml`.

    ```command
    $ cat cluster/config.yaml | grep service_cluster_ip_range
    ```

    A sample output is as following:

    ```plain
    service_cluster_ip_range: 10.0.0.1/24
    ```

1.  Use `--set global.proxy.includeIPRanges="10.0.0.1/24"`

#### IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service

Use `--set global.proxy.includeIPRanges="172.30.0.0/16\,172.20.0.0/16\,10.10.10.0/24"`

#### Google Container Engine (GKE)

The ranges are not fixed, so you will need to run the `gcloud container clusters describe` command to determine the ranges to use. For example:

```command
$ gcloud container clusters describe XXXXXXX --zone=XXXXXX | grep -e clusterIpv4Cidr -e servicesIpv4Cidr
clusterIpv4Cidr: 10.4.0.0/14
servicesIpv4Cidr: 10.7.240.0/20
```

Use `--set global.proxy.includeIPRanges="10.4.0.0/14\,10.7.240.0/20"`

#### Azure Container Service(ACS)

Use `--set global.proxy.includeIPRanges="10.244.0.0/16\,10.240.0.0/16`

#### Minikube

Use `--set global.proxy.includeIPRanges="10.0.0.1/24"`

### Access the external services

After updating the `ConfigMap` _istio-sidecar-injector_ and redeploying the _sleep_ application,
the Istio sidecar will only intercept and manage internal requests
within the cluster. Any external request will simply bypass the sidecar and go straight to its intended
destination.

```command
$ export SOURCE_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})
$ kubectl exec -it $SOURCE_POD -c sleep curl http://httpbin.org/headers
```

## Understanding what happened

In this task we looked at two ways to call external services from an Istio mesh:

1. Using a `ServiceEntry` (recommended)

1. Configuring the Istio sidecar to exclude external IPs from its remapped IP table

The first approach (`ServiceEntry`) allows
you to use all of the same Istio service mesh features for calls to services within or outside
of the cluster. We demonstrated this by setting a timeout rule for calls to an external service.

The second approach bypasses the Istio sidecar proxy, giving your services direct access to any
external URL. However, configuring the proxy this way does require
cloud provider specific knowledge and configuration.

## Cleanup

1.  Remove the rules.

    ```command
    $ istioctl delete serviceentry httpbin-ext google-ext
    $ istioctl delete virtualservice httpbin-ext
    ```

1.  Shutdown the [sleep](https://github.com/istio/istio/tree/{{<branch_name>}}/samples/sleep) service.

    ```command
    $ kubectl delete -f @samples/sleep/sleep.yaml@
    ```

1.  Update the `ConfigMap` _istio-sidecar-injector_ to redirect all outbound traffic to the sidecar proxies:

    ```command
    $ helm template @install/kubernetes/helm/istio@ <the flags you used to install Istio> -x @templates/sidecar-injector-configmap.yaml@ | kubectl apply -f -
    ```
## What's next

* Learn more about [service entries](/docs/concepts/traffic-management/rules-configuration/#service-entries).

* Learn how to setup
  [timeouts](/docs/reference/config/istio.networking.v1alpha3/#HTTPRoute.timeout),
  [retries](/docs/reference/config/istio.networking.v1alpha3/#HTTPRoute.retries),
  and [circuit breakers](/docs/reference/config/istio.networking.v1alpha3/#OutlierDetection) for egress traffic.

Commit message:

add a security note to egress traffic task, to istio 0.8 (#3122)
similar to #3115

content/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress.md, after:

---
title: Control Egress Traffic
description: Describes how to configure Istio to route traffic from services in the mesh to external services.
weight: 40
aliases:
    - /docs/tasks/egress.html
---

> This task uses the new [v1alpha3 traffic management API](/blog/2018/v1alpha3-routing/). The old API has been deprecated and will be removed in the next Istio release. If you need to use the old version, follow the docs [here](https://archive.istio.io/v0.7/docs/tasks/traffic-management/).

By default, Istio-enabled services are unable to access URLs outside of the cluster because
iptables is used in the pod to transparently redirect all outbound traffic to the sidecar proxy,
which only handles intra-cluster destinations.

This task describes how to configure Istio to expose external services to Istio-enabled clients.
You'll learn how to enable access to external services by defining
[ServiceEntry](/docs/reference/config/istio.networking.v1alpha3/#ServiceEntry) configurations,
or alternatively, to simply bypass the Istio proxy for a specific range of IPs.

## Before you begin

* Setup Istio by following the instructions in the
  [Installation guide](/docs/setup/).

*   Start the [sleep](https://github.com/istio/istio/tree/{{<branch_name>}}/samples/sleep) sample
    which will be used as a test source for external calls.

    If you have enabled [automatic sidecar injection](/docs/setup/kubernetes/sidecar-injection/#automatic-sidecar-injection), do

    ```command
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/sleep/sleep.yaml@
    ```
    otherwise, you have to manually inject the sidecar before deploying the `sleep` application:

    ```command
    $ kubectl apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f @samples/sleep/sleep.yaml@)
    ```

    Note that any pod that you can `exec` and `curl` from would do.

## Configuring Istio external services

Using Istio `ServiceEntry` configurations, you can access any publicly accessible service
from within your Istio cluster. In this task we will use
[httpbin.org](http://httpbin.org) and [www.google.com](https://www.google.com) as examples.

### Configuring the external services

1.  Create an `ServiceEntry` to allow access to an external HTTP service:

    ```bash
        cat <<EOF | istioctl create -f -
        apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
        kind: ServiceEntry
        metadata:
          name: httpbin-ext
        spec:
          hosts:
          - httpbin.org
          ports:
          - number: 80
            name: http
            protocol: HTTP
        EOF
    ```

1.  Create an `ServiceEntry` to allow access to an external HTTPS service:

    ```bash
        cat <<EOF | istioctl create -f -
        apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
        kind: ServiceEntry
        metadata:
          name: google-ext
        spec:
          hosts:
          - www.google.com
          ports:
          - number: 443
            name: https
            protocol: HTTPS
        EOF
    ```

### Make requests to the external services

1.  Exec into the pod being used as the test source. For example,
    if you are using the sleep service, run the following commands:

    ```command
    $ export SOURCE_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})
    $ kubectl exec -it $SOURCE_POD -c sleep bash
    ```

1.  Make a request to the external HTTP service:

    ```command
    $ curl http://httpbin.org/headers
    ```

1.  Make a request to the external HTTPS service:

    ```command
    $ curl https://www.google.com
    ```

### Setting route rules on an external service

Similar to inter-cluster requests, Istio
[routing rules](/docs/concepts/traffic-management/rules-configuration/)
can also be set for external services that are accessed using `ServiceEntry` configurations.
To illustrate we will use [istioctl](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/)
to set a timeout rule on calls to the httpbin.org service.

1.  From inside the pod being used as the test source, invoke the `/delay` endpoint of the httpbin.org external service:

    ```command
    $ kubectl exec -it $SOURCE_POD -c sleep bash
    $ time curl -o /dev/null -s -w "%{http_code}\n" http://httpbin.org/delay/5
    200

    real    0m5.024s
    user    0m0.003s
    sys     0m0.003s
    ```

    The request should return 200 (OK) in approximately 5 seconds.

1.  Exit the source pod and use `istioctl` to set a 3s timeout on calls to the httpbin.org external service:

    ```bash
        cat <<EOF | istioctl create -f -
        apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
        kind: VirtualService
        metadata:
          name: httpbin-ext
        spec:
          hosts:
            - httpbin.org
          http:
          - timeout: 3s
            route:
              - destination:
                  host: httpbin.org
                weight: 100
        EOF
    ```

1.  Wait a few seconds, then issue the _curl_ request again:

    ```command
    $ kubectl exec -it $SOURCE_POD -c sleep bash
    $ time curl -o /dev/null -s -w "%{http_code}\n" http://httpbin.org/delay/5
    504

    real    0m3.149s
    user    0m0.004s
    sys     0m0.004s
    ```

    This time a 504 (Gateway Timeout) appears after 3 seconds.
    Although httpbin.org was waiting 5 seconds, Istio cut off the request at 3 seconds.

## Calling external services directly

If you want to completely bypass Istio for a specific IP range,
you can configure the Envoy sidecars to prevent them from
[intercepting](/docs/concepts/traffic-management/request-routing/#communication-between-services)
the external requests. This can be done by setting the `global.proxy.includeIPRanges` variable of
[Helm](/docs/setup/kubernetes/helm-install/#customization-with-helm) and updating the `ConfigMap` _istio-sidecar-injector_ by `kubectl apply`. After _istio-sidecar-injector_ is updated, the value of `global.proxy.includeIPRanges` will affect all the future deployments of the application pods.

The simplest way to use the `global.proxy.includeIPRanges` variable is to pass it the IP range(s)
used for internal cluster services, thereby excluding external IPs from being redirected
to the sidecar proxy.
The values used for internal IP range(s), however, depends on where your cluster is running.
For example, with Minikube the range is 10.0.0.1&#47;24, so you would update your `ConfigMap` _istio-sidecar-injector_ like this:

```command
$ helm template @install/kubernetes/helm/istio@ <the flags you used to install Istio> --set global.proxy.includeIPRanges="10.0.0.1/24" -x @templates/sidecar-injector-configmap.yaml@ | kubectl apply -f -
```

Note that you should use the same Helm command you used [to install Istio](/docs/setup/kubernetes/helm-install),
in particular, the same value of the `--namespace` flag. In addition to the flags you used to install Istio, add `--set global.proxy.includeIPRanges="10.0.0.1/24" -x templates/sidecar-injector-configmap.yaml`.

Redeploy the _sleep_ application as described in the [Before you begin](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/#before-you-begin) section.

### Determine the value of `global.proxy.includeIPRanges`

Set the value of `global.proxy.includeIPRanges` according to your cluster provider.

#### IBM Cloud Private

1.  Get your `service_cluster_ip_range` from IBM Cloud Private configuration file under `cluster/config.yaml`.

    ```command
    $ cat cluster/config.yaml | grep service_cluster_ip_range
    ```

    A sample output is as following:

    ```plain
    service_cluster_ip_range: 10.0.0.1/24
    ```

1.  Use `--set global.proxy.includeIPRanges="10.0.0.1/24"`

#### IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service

Use `--set global.proxy.includeIPRanges="172.30.0.0/16\,172.20.0.0/16\,10.10.10.0/24"`

#### Google Container Engine (GKE)

The ranges are not fixed, so you will need to run the `gcloud container clusters describe` command to determine the ranges to use. For example:

```command
$ gcloud container clusters describe XXXXXXX --zone=XXXXXX | grep -e clusterIpv4Cidr -e servicesIpv4Cidr
clusterIpv4Cidr: 10.4.0.0/14
servicesIpv4Cidr: 10.7.240.0/20
```

Use `--set global.proxy.includeIPRanges="10.4.0.0/14\,10.7.240.0/20"`

#### Azure Container Service(ACS)

Use `--set global.proxy.includeIPRanges="10.244.0.0/16\,10.240.0.0/16`

#### Minikube

Use `--set global.proxy.includeIPRanges="10.0.0.1/24"`

### Access the external services

After updating the `ConfigMap` _istio-sidecar-injector_ and redeploying the _sleep_ application,
the Istio sidecar will only intercept and manage internal requests
within the cluster. Any external request will simply bypass the sidecar and go straight to its intended
destination.

```command
$ export SOURCE_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})
$ kubectl exec -it $SOURCE_POD -c sleep curl http://httpbin.org/headers
```

## Understanding what happened

In this task we looked at two ways to call external services from an Istio mesh:

1. Using a `ServiceEntry` (recommended)

1. Configuring the Istio sidecar to exclude external IPs from its remapped IP table

The first approach (`ServiceEntry`) allows
you to use all of the same Istio service mesh features for calls to services within or outside
of the cluster. We demonstrated this by setting a timeout rule for calls to an external service.

The second approach bypasses the Istio sidecar proxy, giving your services direct access to any
external URL. However, configuring the proxy this way does require
cloud provider specific knowledge and configuration.

## Security note

{{< warning_icon >}} Note that configuration examples in this task **do not enable secure egress traffic control** in
Istio.
A malicious application can bypass the Istio sidecar proxy and access any external service without Istio control.

To implement egress traffic control in a secure way, you must [direct egress traffic through an egress gateway](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress-gateway) and address the security concerns expressed in
[Configure an Egress Gateway task, Additional Security Considerations](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress-gateway#additional-security-considerations).

## Cleanup

1.  Remove the rules.

    ```command
    $ istioctl delete serviceentry httpbin-ext google-ext
    $ istioctl delete virtualservice httpbin-ext
    ```

1.  Shutdown the [sleep](https://github.com/istio/istio/tree/{{<branch_name>}}/samples/sleep) service.

    ```command
    $ kubectl delete -f @samples/sleep/sleep.yaml@
    ```

1.  Update the `ConfigMap` _istio-sidecar-injector_ to redirect all outbound traffic to the sidecar proxies:

    ```command
    $ helm template @install/kubernetes/helm/istio@ <the flags you used to install Istio> -x @templates/sidecar-injector-configmap.yaml@ | kubectl apply -f -
    ```
## What's next

* Learn more about [service entries](/docs/concepts/traffic-management/rules-configuration/#service-entries).

* Learn how to setup
  [timeouts](/docs/reference/config/istio.networking.v1alpha3/#HTTPRoute.timeout),
  [retries](/docs/reference/config/istio.networking.v1alpha3/#HTTPRoute.retries),
  and [circuit breakers](/docs/reference/config/istio.networking.v1alpha3/#OutlierDetection) for egress traffic.
