content/docs/setup/kubernetes/platform-setup/gke/index.md, before:

---
title: Google Kubernetes Engine
description: Instructions to setup a Google Kubernetes Engine cluster for Istio.
weight: 15 
skip_seealso: true
keywords: [platform-setup,kubernetes,gke,google]
---

Follow these instructions to prepare an GKE cluster for Istio.

1. Create a new cluster.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ gcloud container clusters create <cluster-name> \
      --cluster-version latest \
      --num-nodes 4 \
      --zone <zone> \
      --project <project-id>
    {{< /text >}}

1. Retrieve your credentials for `kubectl`.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ gcloud container clusters get-credentials <cluster-name> \
        --zone <zone> \
        --project <project-id>
    {{< /text >}}

1. Grant cluster administrator (admin) permissions to the current user. To
   create the necessary RBAC rules for Istio, the current user requires admin
   permissions.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create clusterrolebinding cluster-admin-binding \
        --clusterrole=cluster-admin \
        --user=$(gcloud config get-value core/account)
    {{< /text >}}

Commit message:

Add new setup instructions about istio-cni

content/docs/setup/kubernetes/platform-setup/gke/index.md, after:

---
title: Google Kubernetes Engine
description: Instructions to setup a Google Kubernetes Engine cluster for Istio.
weight: 15 
skip_seealso: true
keywords: [platform-setup,kubernetes,gke,google]
---

Follow these instructions to prepare an GKE cluster for Istio.

1. Create a new cluster.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ gcloud container clusters create <cluster-name> \
      --cluster-version latest \
      --num-nodes 4 \
      --zone <zone> \
      --project <project-id>
    {{< /text >}}

    - **NOTE** to use the Istio CNI feature, the
      [network-policy](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/network-policy)
      GKE feature must be enabled in the cluster.  Use the '--enable-network-policy' in
      the `gcloud container clusters create` command.

1. Retrieve your credentials for `kubectl`.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ gcloud container clusters get-credentials <cluster-name> \
        --zone <zone> \
        --project <project-id>
    {{< /text >}}

1. Grant cluster administrator (admin) permissions to the current user. To
   create the necessary RBAC rules for Istio, the current user requires admin
   permissions.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create clusterrolebinding cluster-admin-binding \
        --clusterrole=cluster-admin \
        --user=$(gcloud config get-value core/account)
    {{< /text >}}
