content/docs/setup/kubernetes/prepare/platform-setup/minikube/index.md, before:

---
title: Minikube
description: Instructions to setup Minikube for use with Istio.
weight: 21
skip_seealso: true
aliases:
    - /docs/setup/kubernetes/platform-setup/minikube/
keywords: [platform-setup,kubernetes,minikube]
---

Follow these instructions to prepare Minikube for Istio installation with sufficient
resources to run Istio and some basic applications.

1. To run Istio locally, install the latest version of
   [Minikube](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/minikube/), version **0.33.1 or
   later** and a
   [Minikube Hypervisor Driver](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-minikube/#install-a-hypervisor).

    {{< tip >}}
    Set your Minikube Hypervisor driver.  For example if you installed the KVM hypervisor, set the vm-driver
    within the Minikube configuration:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ minikube config set vm-driver kvm2
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< /tip >}}

1. Start Minikube with 8192 `MB` of memory and 4 `CPUs`.  This example uses Kuberenetes
   vesion 1.13.0, however, you may alter the version to Kubernetes versions of Istio that are
   supported:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ minikube start --memory=8192 --cpus=4 --kubernetes-version=v1.13.0
    {{< /text >}}

1. (Optional) If you want a Load balancer in Minikube, you can use the
   [Minikube Tunnel](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube/blob/master/docs/tunnel.md).

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ minikube tunnel
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< tip >}}
    Running the minikube tunnel feature will block your shell and output diagonstic information.  Be
    prepared to run this optional command in a different terminal.
    {{< /tip >}}

Commit message:

Apply reviewer comments
Also switch to version 1.0.0 of minikube as it is now available!!

A few other cleanups as well that I picked up in a second self-review.

content/docs/setup/kubernetes/prepare/platform-setup/minikube/index.md, after:

---
title: Minikube
description: Instructions to setup Minikube for use with Istio.
weight: 21
skip_seealso: true
aliases:
    - /docs/setup/kubernetes/platform-setup/minikube/
keywords: [platform-setup,kubernetes,minikube]
---

Follow these instructions to prepare Minikube for Istio installation with sufficient
resources to run Istio and some basic applications.

1. To run Istio locally, install the latest version of
   [Minikube](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/minikube/), version **1.0.0 or
   later**, and a
   [Minikube Hypervisor Driver](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-minikube/#install-a-hypervisor).

    {{< tip >}}
    Set your Minikube Hypervisor driver.  For example if you installed the KVM hypervisor, set the vm-driver
    within the Minikube configuration using the following command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ minikube config set vm-driver kvm2
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< /tip >}}

1. Start Minikube with 8192 `MB` of memory and 4 `CPUs`.  This example uses Kuberenetes version **1.13.0**.
   You can change the version to any Kubernetes version supported by Istio by altering the `--kubernetes-version` value:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ minikube start --memory=8192 --cpus=4 --kubernetes-version=v1.13.0
    {{< /text >}}

1. (Optional) If you want a Load balancer in Minikube for use by Istio, you can use the
   [Minikube Tunnel](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube/blob/master/docs/tunnel.md).

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ minikube tunnel
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< tip >}}
    Running the minikube tunnel feature will block your terminal and output diagonstic information.  Be
    prepared to run this optional command in a different terminal.
    {{< /tip >}}
