content/docs/tasks/policy-enforcement/rate-limiting/index.md, before:

---
title: Enabling Rate Limits
description: This task shows you how to use Istio to dynamically limit the traffic to a service.
weight: 10
keywords: [policies,quotas]
aliases:
    - /docs/tasks/rate-limiting.html
---

This task shows you how to use Istio to dynamically limit the traffic to a
service.

## Before you begin

1. Setup Istio in a Kubernetes cluster by following the instructions in the
   [Installation Guide](/docs/setup/kubernetes/install/kubernetes/).

1. Deploy the [Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/) sample application.

    The Bookinfo sample deploys 3 versions of the `reviews` service:

    * Version v1 doesn’t call the `ratings` service.
    * Version v2 calls the `ratings` service, and displays each rating as 1 to 5 black stars.
    * Version v3 calls the `ratings` service, and displays each rating as 1 to 5 red stars.

    You need to set a default route to one of the versions. Otherwise, when you send requests to the `reviews` service, Istio routes requests to all available versions randomly, and sometimes the output contains star ratings and sometimes it doesn't.

1. Set the default version for all services to v1.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/bookinfo/networking/virtual-service-all-v1.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

## Rate limits

In this task, you configure Istio to rate limit traffic to `productpage` based on the IP address
of the originating client. You will use `X-Forwarded-For` request header as the client
IP address. You will also use a conditional rate limit that exempts logged in users.

For convenience, you configure the
[memory quota](/docs/reference/config/policy-and-telemetry/adapters/memquota/)
(`memquota`) adapter to enable rate limiting. On a production system, however,
you need [Redis](http://redis.io/), and you configure the [Redis
quota](/docs/reference/config/policy-and-telemetry/adapters/redisquota/)
(`redisquota`) adapter. Both the `memquota` and `redisquota` adapters support
the [quota template](/docs/reference/config/policy-and-telemetry/templates/quota/),
so the configuration to enable rate limiting on both adapters is the same.

1. Rate limit configuration is split into 2 parts.
    * Client Side
        * `QuotaSpec` defines quota name and amount that the client should request.
        * `QuotaSpecBinding` conditionally associates `QuotaSpec` with one or more services.
    * Mixer Side
        * `quota instance` defines how quota is dimensioned by Mixer.
        * `memquota adapter` defines `memquota` adapter configuration.
        * `quota rule` defines when quota instance is dispatched to the `memquota` adapter.

    Run the following command to enable rate limits using `memquota`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/bookinfo/policy/mixer-rule-productpage-ratelimit.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

    Or

    Save the following yaml file as `redisquota.yaml`. Replace [rate_limit_algorithm](/docs/reference/config/policy-and-telemetry/adapters/redisquota/#Params-QuotaAlgorithm),
    [redis_server_url](/docs/reference/config/policy-and-telemetry/adapters/redisquota/#Params) with values for your configuration.

    {{< text yaml >}}
    apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
    kind: redisquota
    metadata:
      name: handler
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      redisServerUrl: <redis_server_url>
      connectionPoolSize: 10
      quotas:
      - name: requestcount.quota.istio-system
        maxAmount: 500
        validDuration: 1s
        bucketDuration: 500ms
        rateLimitAlgorithm: <rate_limit_algorithm>
        # The first matching override is applied.
        # A requestcount instance is checked against override dimensions.
        overrides:
        # The following override applies to 'reviews' regardless
        # of the source.
        - dimensions:
            destination: reviews
          maxAmount: 1
        # The following override applies to 'productpage' when
        # the source is a specific ip address.
        - dimensions:
            destination: productpage
            source: "10.28.11.20"
          maxAmount: 500
        # The following override applies to 'productpage' regardless
        # of the source.
        - dimensions:
            destination: productpage
          maxAmount: 2
    ---
    apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
    kind: quota
    metadata:
      name: requestcount
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      dimensions:
        source: request.headers["x-forwarded-for"] | "unknown"
        destination: destination.labels["app"] | destination.workload.name | "unknown"
        destinationVersion: destination.labels["version"] | "unknown"
    ---
    apiVersion: config.istio.io/v1alpha2
    kind: rule
    metadata:
      name: quota
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      # quota only applies if you are not logged in.
      # match: match(request.headers["cookie"], "session=*") == false
      actions:
      - handler: handler.redisquota
        instances:
        - requestcount.quota
    ---
    apiVersion: config.istio.io/v1alpha2
    kind: QuotaSpec
    metadata:
      name: request-count
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      rules:
      - quotas:
        - charge: 1
          quota: requestcount
    ---
    apiVersion: config.istio.io/v1alpha2
    kind: QuotaSpecBinding
    metadata:
      name: request-count
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      quotaSpecs:
      - name: request-count
        namespace: istio-system
      services:
      - name: productpage
        namespace: default
        #  - service: '*'  # Uncomment this to bind *all* services to request-count
    ---
    {{< /text >}}

    Run the following command to enable rate limits using redisquota:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f redisquota.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Confirm the `memquota` handler was created:

    {{< text bash yaml >}}
    $ kubectl -n istio-system get memquota handler -o yaml
    apiVersion: config.istio.io/v1alpha2
    kind: memquota
    metadata:
      name: handler
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      quotas:
      - name: requestcount.quota.istio-system
        maxAmount: 500
        validDuration: 1s
        overrides:
        - dimensions:
            destination: reviews
          maxAmount: 1
          validDuration: 5s
        - dimensions:
            destination: productpage
          maxAmount: 2
          validDuration: 5s
    {{< /text >}}

    The `memquota` handler defines 3 different rate limit schemes. The default,
    if no overrides match, is `500` requests per one second (`1s`). Two
    overrides are also defined:

    * The first is `1` request (the `maxAmount` field) every `5s` (the
    `validDuration` field), if the `destination` is `reviews`.
    * The second is `2` requests every `5s`, if the `destination` is `productpage`.

    When a request is processed, the first matching override is picked (reading from top to bottom).

    Or

    Confirm the `redisquota` handler was created:

    {{< text bash yaml >}}
    $ kubectl -n istio-system get redisquota handler -o yaml
    apiVersion: config.istio.io/v1alpha2
    kind: redisquota
    metadata:
      name: handler
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      connectionPoolSize: 10
      quotas:
      - name: requestcount.quota.istio-system
        maxAmount: 500
        validDuration: 1s
        bucketDuration: 500ms
        rateLimitAlgorithm: ROLLING_WINDOW
        overrides:
        - dimensions:
            destination: reviews
          maxAmount: 1
        - dimensions:
            destination: productpage
            source: 10.28.11.20
          maxAmount: 500
        - dimensions:
            destination: productpage
          maxAmount: 2
    {{< /text >}}

    The `redisquota` handler defines 4 different rate limit schemes. The default,
    if no overrides match, is `500` requests per one second (`1s`). It is using `ROLLING_WINDOW`
    algorithm for quota check and thus define `bucketDuration` of 500ms for `ROLLING_WINDOW`
    algorithm. Three overrides are also defined:

    * The first is `1` request (the `maxAmount` field), if the `destination` is `reviews`.
    * The second is `500`, if the destination is `productpage` and source
      is `10.28.11.20`
    * The third is `2`, if the `destination` is `productpage`.

    When a request is processed, the first matching override is picked (reading from top to bottom).

1. Confirm the `quota instance` was created:

    {{< text bash yaml >}}
    $ kubectl -n istio-system get quotas requestcount -o yaml
    apiVersion: config.istio.io/v1alpha2
    kind: quota
    metadata:
      name: requestcount
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      dimensions:
        source: request.headers["x-forwarded-for"] | "unknown"
        destination: destination.labels["app"] | destination.service.host | "unknown"
        destinationVersion: destination.labels["version"] | "unknown"
    {{< /text >}}

    The `quota` template defines three dimensions that are used by `memquota` or `redisquota`
    to set overrides on requests that match certain attributes. The
    `destination` will be set to the first non-empty value in
    `destination.labels["app"]`, `destination.service.host`, or `"unknown"`. For
     more information on expressions, see [Expression
    Language](/docs/reference/config/policy-and-telemetry/expression-language/).

1. Confirm the `quota rule` was created:

    {{< text bash yaml >}}
    $ kubectl -n istio-system get rules quota -o yaml
    apiVersion: config.istio.io/v1alpha2
    kind: rule
    metadata:
      name: quota
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      actions:
      - handler: handler.memquota
        instances:
        - requestcount.quota
    {{< /text >}}

    The `rule` tells Mixer to invoke the `handler.memquota\handler.redisquota` handler (created
    above) and pass it the object constructed using the instance
    `requestcount.quota` (also created above). This maps the
    dimensions from the `quota` template to `memquota` or `redisquota` handler.

1. Confirm the `QuotaSpec` was created:

    {{< text bash yaml >}}
    $ kubectl -n istio-system get QuotaSpec request-count -o yaml
    apiVersion: config.istio.io/v1alpha2
    kind: QuotaSpec
    metadata:
      name: request-count
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      rules:
      - quotas:
        - charge: "1"
          quota: requestcount
    {{< /text >}}

    This `QuotaSpec` defines the `requestcount quota` you created above with a
    charge of `1`.

1. Confirm the `QuotaSpecBinding` was created:

    {{< text bash yaml >}}
    $ kubectl -n istio-system get QuotaSpecBinding request-count -o yaml
    kind: QuotaSpecBinding
    metadata:
      name: request-count
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      quotaSpecs:
      - name: request-count
        namespace: istio-system
      services:
      - name: productpage
        namespace: default
      # - service: '*'
    {{< /text >}}

    This `QuotaSpecBinding` binds the `QuotaSpec` you created above to the
    services you want to apply it to. `productpage` is explicitly bound to `request-count`, note
    that you must define the namespace since it differs from the namespace of the `QuotaSpecBinding`.
    If the last line is uncommented, `service: '*'` binds all services to the `QuotaSpec`
    making the first entry redundant.

1. Refresh the product page in your browser.

    `request-count` quota applies to `productpage` and it permits 2 requests
    every 5 seconds. If you keep refreshing the page you should see
    `RESOURCE_EXHAUSTED:Quota is exhausted for: requestcount`.

## Conditional rate limits

In the above example we have effectively rate limited `productpage` at `2 rps` per client IP.
Consider a scenario where you would like to exempt clients from this rate limit if a user is logged in.
In the `bookinfo` example, we use cookie `session=<sessionid>` to denote a logged in user.
In a realistic scenario you may use a `jwt` token for this purpose.

You can update the `quota rule` by adding a match condition based on the `cookie`.

{{< text yaml >}}
$ kubectl -n istio-system edit rules quota
apiVersion: config.istio.io/v1alpha2
kind: rule
metadata:
  name: quota
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  match: match(request.headers["cookie"], "session=*") == false
  actions:
  - handler: handler.memquota
    instances:
    - requestcount.quota
{{< /text >}}

`memquota` or `redisquota` adapter is now dispatched only if `session=<sessionid>` cookie is absent from the request.
This ensures that a logged in user is not subject to this quota.

1.  Verify that rate limit does not apply to a logged in user.

    Log in as `jason` and repeatedly refresh the `productpage`. Now you should be able to do this without a problem.

1.  Verify that rate limit *does* apply when not logged in.

    Logout as `jason` and repeatedly refresh the `productpage`.
    You should again see `RESOURCE_EXHAUSTED:Quota is exhausted for: requestcount`.

## Understanding rate limits

In the preceding examples you saw how Mixer applies rate limits to requests
that match certain conditions.

Every named quota instance like `requestcount` represents a set of counters.
The set is defined by a Cartesian product of all quota dimensions. If the
number of requests in the last `expiration` duration exceed `maxAmount`,
Mixer returns a `RESOURCE_EXHAUSTED` message to the Envoy proxy, and Envoy
returns status `HTTP 429` to the caller.

The `memquota` adapter uses a sliding window of sub-second resolution to
enforce rate limits.

The `redisquota` adapter can be configured to use either the [`ROLLING_WINDOW` or `FIXED_WINDOW`](/docs/reference/config/policy-and-telemetry/adapters/redisquota/#Params-QuotaAlgorithm)
algorithms to enforce rate limits.

The `maxAmount` in the adapter configuration sets the default limit for all
counters associated with a quota instance. This default limit applies if a quota
override does not match the request. The `memquota/redisquota` adapter selects the first
override that matches a request. An override need not specify all quota
dimensions. In the example, the 0.2 qps override is selected by matching only
three out of four quota dimensions.

If you want the policies enforced for a given namespace instead of the entire
Istio mesh, you can replace all occurrences of `istio-system` with the given
namespace.

## Cleanup

1. If using `memquota`, remove the `memquota` rate limit configuration:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete -f @samples/bookinfo/policy/mixer-rule-productpage-ratelimit.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

    Or

    If using `redisquota`, remove the `redisquota` rate limit configuration:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete -f redisquota.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1. Remove the application routing rules:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete -f @samples/bookinfo/networking/virtual-service-all-v1.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

1. If you are not planning to explore any follow-on tasks, refer to the
  [Bookinfo cleanup](/docs/examples/bookinfo/#cleanup) instructions
  to shutdown the application.

Commit message:

Add doc on policy check enablement and clean-up P&T release notes

content/docs/tasks/policy-enforcement/rate-limiting/index.md, after:

---
title: Enabling Rate Limits
description: This task shows you how to use Istio to dynamically limit the traffic to a service.
weight: 10
keywords: [policies,quotas]
aliases:
    - /docs/tasks/rate-limiting.html
---

This task shows you how to use Istio to dynamically limit the traffic to a
service.

## Before you begin

1. Setup Istio in a Kubernetes cluster by following the instructions in the
   [Installation Guide](/docs/setup/kubernetes/install/kubernetes/).

    {{< warning >}}
    Policy enforcement **must** be enabled in your cluster for this task. Follow the steps in
    [Enabling Policy Enforcement](/docs/tasks/policy-enforcement/enabling-policy/) to ensure that policy enforcement is enabled.
    {{< /warning >}}

1. Deploy the [Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/) sample application.

    The Bookinfo sample deploys 3 versions of the `reviews` service:

    * Version v1 doesn’t call the `ratings` service.
    * Version v2 calls the `ratings` service, and displays each rating as 1 to 5 black stars.
    * Version v3 calls the `ratings` service, and displays each rating as 1 to 5 red stars.

    You need to set a default route to one of the versions. Otherwise, when you send requests to the `reviews` service, Istio routes requests to all available versions randomly, and sometimes the output contains star ratings and sometimes it doesn't.

1. Set the default version for all services to v1.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/bookinfo/networking/virtual-service-all-v1.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

## Rate limits

In this task, you configure Istio to rate limit traffic to `productpage` based on the IP address
of the originating client. You will use `X-Forwarded-For` request header as the client
IP address. You will also use a conditional rate limit that exempts logged in users.

For convenience, you configure the
[memory quota](/docs/reference/config/policy-and-telemetry/adapters/memquota/)
(`memquota`) adapter to enable rate limiting. On a production system, however,
you need [Redis](http://redis.io/), and you configure the [Redis
quota](/docs/reference/config/policy-and-telemetry/adapters/redisquota/)
(`redisquota`) adapter. Both the `memquota` and `redisquota` adapters support
the [quota template](/docs/reference/config/policy-and-telemetry/templates/quota/),
so the configuration to enable rate limiting on both adapters is the same.

1. Rate limit configuration is split into 2 parts.
    * Client Side
        * `QuotaSpec` defines quota name and amount that the client should request.
        * `QuotaSpecBinding` conditionally associates `QuotaSpec` with one or more services.
    * Mixer Side
        * `quota instance` defines how quota is dimensioned by Mixer.
        * `memquota adapter` defines `memquota` adapter configuration.
        * `quota rule` defines when quota instance is dispatched to the `memquota` adapter.

    Run the following command to enable rate limits using `memquota`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/bookinfo/policy/mixer-rule-productpage-ratelimit.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

    Or

    Save the following yaml file as `redisquota.yaml`. Replace [rate_limit_algorithm](/docs/reference/config/policy-and-telemetry/adapters/redisquota/#Params-QuotaAlgorithm),
    [redis_server_url](/docs/reference/config/policy-and-telemetry/adapters/redisquota/#Params) with values for your configuration.

    {{< text yaml >}}
    apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
    kind: redisquota
    metadata:
      name: handler
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      redisServerUrl: <redis_server_url>
      connectionPoolSize: 10
      quotas:
      - name: requestcount.quota.istio-system
        maxAmount: 500
        validDuration: 1s
        bucketDuration: 500ms
        rateLimitAlgorithm: <rate_limit_algorithm>
        # The first matching override is applied.
        # A requestcount instance is checked against override dimensions.
        overrides:
        # The following override applies to 'reviews' regardless
        # of the source.
        - dimensions:
            destination: reviews
          maxAmount: 1
        # The following override applies to 'productpage' when
        # the source is a specific ip address.
        - dimensions:
            destination: productpage
            source: "10.28.11.20"
          maxAmount: 500
        # The following override applies to 'productpage' regardless
        # of the source.
        - dimensions:
            destination: productpage
          maxAmount: 2
    ---
    apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
    kind: quota
    metadata:
      name: requestcount
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      dimensions:
        source: request.headers["x-forwarded-for"] | "unknown"
        destination: destination.labels["app"] | destination.workload.name | "unknown"
        destinationVersion: destination.labels["version"] | "unknown"
    ---
    apiVersion: config.istio.io/v1alpha2
    kind: rule
    metadata:
      name: quota
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      # quota only applies if you are not logged in.
      # match: match(request.headers["cookie"], "session=*") == false
      actions:
      - handler: handler.redisquota
        instances:
        - requestcount.quota
    ---
    apiVersion: config.istio.io/v1alpha2
    kind: QuotaSpec
    metadata:
      name: request-count
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      rules:
      - quotas:
        - charge: 1
          quota: requestcount
    ---
    apiVersion: config.istio.io/v1alpha2
    kind: QuotaSpecBinding
    metadata:
      name: request-count
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      quotaSpecs:
      - name: request-count
        namespace: istio-system
      services:
      - name: productpage
        namespace: default
        #  - service: '*'  # Uncomment this to bind *all* services to request-count
    ---
    {{< /text >}}

    Run the following command to enable rate limits using redisquota:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f redisquota.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Confirm the `memquota` handler was created:

    {{< text bash yaml >}}
    $ kubectl -n istio-system get memquota handler -o yaml
    apiVersion: config.istio.io/v1alpha2
    kind: memquota
    metadata:
      name: handler
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      quotas:
      - name: requestcount.quota.istio-system
        maxAmount: 500
        validDuration: 1s
        overrides:
        - dimensions:
            destination: reviews
          maxAmount: 1
          validDuration: 5s
        - dimensions:
            destination: productpage
          maxAmount: 2
          validDuration: 5s
    {{< /text >}}

    The `memquota` handler defines 3 different rate limit schemes. The default,
    if no overrides match, is `500` requests per one second (`1s`). Two
    overrides are also defined:

    * The first is `1` request (the `maxAmount` field) every `5s` (the
    `validDuration` field), if the `destination` is `reviews`.
    * The second is `2` requests every `5s`, if the `destination` is `productpage`.

    When a request is processed, the first matching override is picked (reading from top to bottom).

    Or

    Confirm the `redisquota` handler was created:

    {{< text bash yaml >}}
    $ kubectl -n istio-system get redisquota handler -o yaml
    apiVersion: config.istio.io/v1alpha2
    kind: redisquota
    metadata:
      name: handler
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      connectionPoolSize: 10
      quotas:
      - name: requestcount.quota.istio-system
        maxAmount: 500
        validDuration: 1s
        bucketDuration: 500ms
        rateLimitAlgorithm: ROLLING_WINDOW
        overrides:
        - dimensions:
            destination: reviews
          maxAmount: 1
        - dimensions:
            destination: productpage
            source: 10.28.11.20
          maxAmount: 500
        - dimensions:
            destination: productpage
          maxAmount: 2
    {{< /text >}}

    The `redisquota` handler defines 4 different rate limit schemes. The default,
    if no overrides match, is `500` requests per one second (`1s`). It is using `ROLLING_WINDOW`
    algorithm for quota check and thus define `bucketDuration` of 500ms for `ROLLING_WINDOW`
    algorithm. Three overrides are also defined:

    * The first is `1` request (the `maxAmount` field), if the `destination` is `reviews`.
    * The second is `500`, if the destination is `productpage` and source
      is `10.28.11.20`
    * The third is `2`, if the `destination` is `productpage`.

    When a request is processed, the first matching override is picked (reading from top to bottom).

1. Confirm the `quota instance` was created:

    {{< text bash yaml >}}
    $ kubectl -n istio-system get quotas requestcount -o yaml
    apiVersion: config.istio.io/v1alpha2
    kind: quota
    metadata:
      name: requestcount
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      dimensions:
        source: request.headers["x-forwarded-for"] | "unknown"
        destination: destination.labels["app"] | destination.service.host | "unknown"
        destinationVersion: destination.labels["version"] | "unknown"
    {{< /text >}}

    The `quota` template defines three dimensions that are used by `memquota` or `redisquota`
    to set overrides on requests that match certain attributes. The
    `destination` will be set to the first non-empty value in
    `destination.labels["app"]`, `destination.service.host`, or `"unknown"`. For
     more information on expressions, see [Expression
    Language](/docs/reference/config/policy-and-telemetry/expression-language/).

1. Confirm the `quota rule` was created:

    {{< text bash yaml >}}
    $ kubectl -n istio-system get rules quota -o yaml
    apiVersion: config.istio.io/v1alpha2
    kind: rule
    metadata:
      name: quota
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      actions:
      - handler: handler.memquota
        instances:
        - requestcount.quota
    {{< /text >}}

    The `rule` tells Mixer to invoke the `handler.memquota\handler.redisquota` handler (created
    above) and pass it the object constructed using the instance
    `requestcount.quota` (also created above). This maps the
    dimensions from the `quota` template to `memquota` or `redisquota` handler.

1. Confirm the `QuotaSpec` was created:

    {{< text bash yaml >}}
    $ kubectl -n istio-system get QuotaSpec request-count -o yaml
    apiVersion: config.istio.io/v1alpha2
    kind: QuotaSpec
    metadata:
      name: request-count
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      rules:
      - quotas:
        - charge: "1"
          quota: requestcount
    {{< /text >}}

    This `QuotaSpec` defines the `requestcount quota` you created above with a
    charge of `1`.

1. Confirm the `QuotaSpecBinding` was created:

    {{< text bash yaml >}}
    $ kubectl -n istio-system get QuotaSpecBinding request-count -o yaml
    kind: QuotaSpecBinding
    metadata:
      name: request-count
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      quotaSpecs:
      - name: request-count
        namespace: istio-system
      services:
      - name: productpage
        namespace: default
      # - service: '*'
    {{< /text >}}

    This `QuotaSpecBinding` binds the `QuotaSpec` you created above to the
    services you want to apply it to. `productpage` is explicitly bound to `request-count`, note
    that you must define the namespace since it differs from the namespace of the `QuotaSpecBinding`.
    If the last line is uncommented, `service: '*'` binds all services to the `QuotaSpec`
    making the first entry redundant.

1. Refresh the product page in your browser.

    `request-count` quota applies to `productpage` and it permits 2 requests
    every 5 seconds. If you keep refreshing the page you should see
    `RESOURCE_EXHAUSTED:Quota is exhausted for: requestcount`.

## Conditional rate limits

In the above example we have effectively rate limited `productpage` at `2 rps` per client IP.
Consider a scenario where you would like to exempt clients from this rate limit if a user is logged in.
In the `bookinfo` example, we use cookie `session=<sessionid>` to denote a logged in user.
In a realistic scenario you may use a `jwt` token for this purpose.

You can update the `quota rule` by adding a match condition based on the `cookie`.

{{< text yaml >}}
$ kubectl -n istio-system edit rules quota
apiVersion: config.istio.io/v1alpha2
kind: rule
metadata:
  name: quota
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  match: match(request.headers["cookie"], "session=*") == false
  actions:
  - handler: handler.memquota
    instances:
    - requestcount.quota
{{< /text >}}

`memquota` or `redisquota` adapter is now dispatched only if `session=<sessionid>` cookie is absent from the request.
This ensures that a logged in user is not subject to this quota.

1.  Verify that rate limit does not apply to a logged in user.

    Log in as `jason` and repeatedly refresh the `productpage`. Now you should be able to do this without a problem.

1.  Verify that rate limit *does* apply when not logged in.

    Logout as `jason` and repeatedly refresh the `productpage`.
    You should again see `RESOURCE_EXHAUSTED:Quota is exhausted for: requestcount`.

## Understanding rate limits

In the preceding examples you saw how Mixer applies rate limits to requests
that match certain conditions.

Every named quota instance like `requestcount` represents a set of counters.
The set is defined by a Cartesian product of all quota dimensions. If the
number of requests in the last `expiration` duration exceed `maxAmount`,
Mixer returns a `RESOURCE_EXHAUSTED` message to the Envoy proxy, and Envoy
returns status `HTTP 429` to the caller.

The `memquota` adapter uses a sliding window of sub-second resolution to
enforce rate limits.

The `redisquota` adapter can be configured to use either the [`ROLLING_WINDOW` or `FIXED_WINDOW`](/docs/reference/config/policy-and-telemetry/adapters/redisquota/#Params-QuotaAlgorithm)
algorithms to enforce rate limits.

The `maxAmount` in the adapter configuration sets the default limit for all
counters associated with a quota instance. This default limit applies if a quota
override does not match the request. The `memquota/redisquota` adapter selects the first
override that matches a request. An override need not specify all quota
dimensions. In the example, the 0.2 qps override is selected by matching only
three out of four quota dimensions.

If you want the policies enforced for a given namespace instead of the entire
Istio mesh, you can replace all occurrences of `istio-system` with the given
namespace.

## Cleanup

1. If using `memquota`, remove the `memquota` rate limit configuration:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete -f @samples/bookinfo/policy/mixer-rule-productpage-ratelimit.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

    Or

    If using `redisquota`, remove the `redisquota` rate limit configuration:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete -f redisquota.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1. Remove the application routing rules:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete -f @samples/bookinfo/networking/virtual-service-all-v1.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

1. If you are not planning to explore any follow-on tasks, refer to the
  [Bookinfo cleanup](/docs/examples/bookinfo/#cleanup) instructions
  to shutdown the application.
