---
title: Miscellaneous
description: Advice on tackling common problems with Istio.
weight: 90
force_inline_toc: true
---

## 503 errors while reconfiguring service routes

When setting route rules to direct traffic to specific versions (subsets) of a service, care must be taken to ensure
that the subsets are available before they are used in the routes. Otherwise, calls to the service may return
503 errors during a reconfiguration period.

Creating both the `VirtualServices` and `DestinationRules` that define the corresponding subsets using a single `kubectl`
call (e.g., `kubectl apply -f myVirtualServiceAndDestinationRule.yaml` is not sufficient because the
resources propagate (from the configuration server, i.e., Kubernetes API server) to the Pilot instances in an eventually consistent manner. If the
`VirtualService` using the subsets arrives before the `DestinationRule` where the subsets are defined, the Envoy configuration generated by Pilot would refer to non-existent upstream pools, resulting in HTTP 503 errors until all configuration objects are available to Pilot.

To make sure services will have zero down-time when configuring routes with subsets, follow a "make-before-break" process as described below:

* When adding new subsets:

    1. Update `DestinationRules` to add a new subset first, before updating any `VirtualServices` that use it. Apply the rule using `kubectl` or any platform-specific tooling.

    1. Wait a few seconds for the `DestinationRule` configuration to propagate to the Envoys

    1. Update the `VirtualService` to refer to the newly added subsets.

* When removing subsets:

    1. Update `VirtualServices` to remove any references to a subset, before removing the subset from a `DestinationRule`.

    1. Wait a few seconds for the `VirtualService` configuration to propagate to the Envoys

    1. Update the `DestinationRule` to remove the unused subsets

## Route rules have no effect on ingress gateway requests

Let's assume you are using an ingress `Gateway` and corresponding `VirtualSerive` to access an internal service.
For example, your `VirtualService` looks something like this:

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: VirtualService
metadata:
  name: myapp
spec:
  hosts:
  - "myapp.com" # or maybe "*" if you are testing without DNS using the ingress-gateway IP (e.g., http://1.2.3.4/hello)
  gateways:
  - myapp-gateway
  http:
  - match:
    - uri:
        prefix: /hello
    route:
    - destination:
        host: helloworld.default.svc.cluster.local
  - match:
    ...
{{< /text >}}

You also have a `VirtualService` which routes traffic for the helloworld service to a particular subset:

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: VirtualService
metadata:
  name: helloworld
spec:
  hosts:
  - helloworld.default.svc.cluster.local
  http:
  - route:
    - destination:
        host: helloworld.default.svc.cluster.local
        subset: v1
{{< /text >}}

In this situation you will notice that requests to the helloworld service via the ingress gateway will
not be directed to subset v1 but instead will continue to use default round-robin routing.

The ingress requests are using the gateway host (e.g., `myapp.com`)
which will activate the rules in the myapp `VirtualService` that routes to any endpoint in the helloworld service.
On the other hand, internal requests with host `helloworld.default.svc.cluster.local` will use the
helloworld `VirtualService` which directs traffic exclusively to subset v1.

To control the traffic from the gateway, you need to include the subset rule in the myapp `VirtualService`:

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: VirtualService
metadata:
  name: myapp
spec:
  hosts:
  - "myapp.com" # or maybe "*" if you are testing without DNS using the ingress-gateway IP (e.g., http://1.2.3.4/hello)
  gateways:
  - myapp-gateway
  http:
  - match:
    - uri:
        prefix: /hello
    route:
    - destination:
        host: helloworld.default.svc.cluster.local
        subset: v1
  - match:
    ...
{{< /text >}}

Alternatively, you can combine both `VirtualServices` into one unit if possible:

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: VirtualService
metadata:
  name: myapp
spec:
  hosts:
  - myapp.com # cannot use "*" here since this is being combined with the mesh services
  - helloworld.default.svc.cluster.local
  gateways:
  - mesh # applies internally as well as externally
  - myapp-gateway
  http:
  - match:
    - uri:
        prefix: /hello
      gateways:
      - myapp-gateway #restricts this rule to apply only to ingress gateway
    route:
    - destination:
        host: helloworld.default.svc.cluster.local
        subset: v1
  - match:
    - gateways:
      - mesh # applies to all services inside the mesh
    route:
    - destination:
        host: helloworld.default.svc.cluster.local
        subset: v1
{{< /text >}}

## Route rules have no effect on my application

If route rules are working perfectly for the [Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/) sample,
but similar version routing rules have no effect on your own application, it may be that
your Kubernetes services need to be changed slightly.

Kubernetes services must adhere to certain restrictions in order to take advantage of
Istio's L7 routing features.
Refer to the [Requirements for Pods and Services](/docs/setup/kubernetes/spec-requirements)
for details.

## Verifying connectivity to Istio Pilot

Verifying connectivity to Pilot is a useful troubleshooting step. Every proxy container in the service mesh should be able to communicate with Pilot. This can be accomplished in a few simple steps:

1.  Get the name of the Istio Ingress pod:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ INGRESS_POD_NAME=$(kubectl get po -n istio-system | grep ingressgateway\- | awk '{print$1}'); echo ${INGRESS_POD_NAME};
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Exec into the Istio Ingress pod:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec -it $INGRESS_POD_NAME -n istio-system /bin/bash
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Test connectivity to Pilot using `curl`. The following example invokes the v1 registration API using default Pilot configuration parameters and mutual TLS enabled:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl -k --cert /etc/certs/cert-chain.pem --cacert /etc/certs/root-cert.pem --key /etc/certs/key.pem https://istio-pilot:15003/v1/registration
    {{< /text >}}

    If mutual TLS is disabled:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl http://istio-pilot:15003/v1/registration
    {{< /text >}}

You should receive a response listing the "service-key" and "hosts" for each service in the mesh.

## No traces appearing in Zipkin when running Istio locally on Mac

Istio is installed and everything seems to be working except there are no traces showing up in Zipkin when there
should be.

This may be caused by a known [Docker issue](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/1260) where the time inside
containers may skew significantly from the time on the host machine. If this is the case,
when you select a very long date range in Zipkin you will see the traces appearing as much as several days too early.

You can also confirm this problem by comparing the date inside a docker container to outside:

{{< text bash >}}
$ docker run --entrypoint date gcr.io/istio-testing/ubuntu-16-04-slave:latest
Sun Jun 11 11:44:18 UTC 2017
{{< /text >}}

{{< text bash >}}
$ date -u
Thu Jun 15 02:25:42 UTC 2017
{{< /text >}}

To fix the problem, you'll need to shutdown and then restart Docker before reinstalling Istio.

## Envoy won't connect to my HTTP/1.0 service

Envoy requires HTTP/1.1 or HTTP/2 traffic for upstream services. For example, when using [NGINX](https://www.nginx.com/) for serving traffic behind Envoy, you
will need to set the [proxy_http_version](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_proxy_module.html#proxy_http_version) directive in your NGINX configuration to be "1.1", since the NGINX default is 1.0

Example configuration:

{{< text plain >}}
upstream http_backend {
    server 127.0.0.1:8080;

    keepalive 16;
}

server {
    ...

    location /http/ {
        proxy_pass http://http_backend;
        proxy_http_version 1.1;
        proxy_set_header Connection "";
        ...
    }
}
{{< /text >}}

## Envoy is crashing under load

Check your `ulimit -a`. Many systems have a 1024 open file descriptor limit by default which will cause Envoy to assert and crash with:

{{< text plain >}}
[2017-05-17 03:00:52.735][14236][critical][assert] assert failure: fd_ != -1: external/envoy/source/common/network/connection_impl.cc:58
{{< /text >}}

Make sure to raise your ulimit. Example: `ulimit -n 16384`

## Headless TCP services losing connection from Istiofied containers

If `istio-citadel` is deployed, Envoy is restarted every 15 minutes to refresh certificates.
This causes the disconnection of TCP streams or long-running connections between services.

You should build resilience into your application for this type of
disconnect, but if you still want to prevent the disconnects from
happening, you will need to disable mutual TLS and the `istio-citadel` deployment.

First, edit your `istio` configuration to disable mutual TLS:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl edit configmap -n istio-system istio
$ kubectl delete pods -n istio-system -l istio=pilot
{{< /text >}}

Next, scale down the `istio-citadel` deployment to disable Envoy restarts:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl scale --replicas=0 deploy/istio-citadel -n istio-system
{{< /text >}}

This should stop Istio from restarting Envoy and disconnecting TCP connections.

## Envoy has high CPU usage

For larger clusters, the default configuration that comes with Istio
refreshes the Envoy configuration every 1 second. This can cause high
CPU usage, even when Envoy isn't doing anything. In order to bring the
CPU usage down for larger deployments, increase the refresh interval for
Envoy to something higher, like 30 seconds.

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl edit configmap -n istio-system istio
$ kubectl delete pods -n istio-system -l istio=pilot
{{< /text >}}

Also make sure to reinject the sidecar into all of your pods, as
their configuration needs to be updated as well.

Afterwards, you should see CPU usage fall back to 0-1% while idling.
Make sure to tune these values for your specific deployment.

*Warning:*: Changes created by routing rules will take up to 2x refresh interval to propagate to the sidecars.
While the larger refresh interval will reduce CPU usage, updates caused by routing rules may cause a period
of HTTP 404s (up to 2x the refresh interval) until the Envoy sidecars get all relevant configuration.

## Automatic sidecar injection will fail if the kube-apiserver has proxy settings

When the Kube-apiserver included proxy settings such as:

{{< text yaml >}}
env:
  - name: http_proxy
  value: http://proxy-wsa.esl.foo.com:80
  - name: https_proxy
  value: http://proxy-wsa.esl.foo.com:80
  - name: no_proxy
  value: 127.0.0.1,localhost,dockerhub.foo.com,devhub-docker.foo.com,10.84.100.125,10.84.100.126,10.84.100.127
{{< /text >}}

The sidecar injection would fail. The only related failure logs was in the kube-apiserver log:

{{< text plain >}}
W0227 21:51:03.156818       1 admission.go:257] Failed calling webhook, failing open sidecar-injector.istio.io: failed calling admission webhook "sidecar-injector.istio.io": Post https://istio-sidecar-injector.istio-system.svc:443/inject: Service Unavailable
{{< /text >}}

Make sure both pod and service CIDRs are not proxied according to *_proxy variables.  Check the kube-apiserver files and logs to verify the configuration and whether any requests are being proxied.

A workaround is to remove the proxy settings from the kube-apiserver manifest and restart the server or use a later version of Kubernetes.

An issue was filed with Kubernetes related to this and has since been closed.   [https://github.com/kubernetes/kubeadm/issues/666](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubeadm/issues/666)
[https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/58698#discussion_r163879443](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/58698#discussion_r163879443)

## What Envoy version is istio using?

To find out the envoy version, you can follow below steps:

1. `kubectl exec -it PODNAME -c istio-proxy -n NAMESPACE /bin/bash`

1. `curl localhost:15000/server_info`
