---
title: Istio 1.24 Upgrade Notes
description: Important changes to consider when upgrading to Istio 1.24.0.
weight: 20
publishdate: 2024-11-07
---

When upgrading from Istio 1.23.x to Istio 1.24.x, please consider the changes on this page.
These notes detail the changes which purposefully break backwards compatibility with Istio 1.23.x.
The notes also mention changes which preserve backwards compatibility while introducing new behavior.
Changes are only included if the new behavior would be unexpected to a user of Istio 1.23.x.

## Updated compatibility profiles

To support compatibility with older versions, Istio 1.24 introduces a new 1.23 [compatibility profile](/docs/setup/additional-setup/compatibility-versions/) and updates its other profiles to account for changes in Istio 1.24.

This profile sets the following values:

{{< text yaml >}}
ENABLE_INBOUND_RETRY_POLICY: "false"
EXCLUDE_UNSAFE_503_FROM_DEFAULT_RETRY: "false"
PREFER_DESTINATIONRULE_TLS_FOR_EXTERNAL_SERVICES: "false"
ENABLE_ENHANCED_DESTINATIONRULE_MERGE: "false"
PILOT_UNIFIED_SIDECAR_SCOPE: "false"
ENABLE_DEFERRED_STATS_CREATION: "false"
BYPASS_OVERLOAD_MANAGER_FOR_STATIC_LISTENERS: "false"
{{< /text >}}

See the individual change and upgrade notes for more information.

## Ambient upgrade with DNS proxy

For upgrades to Istio 1.24.0 when using Ambient mode, with `cni.ambient.dnsCapture=true` configured, users will need to follow a specific set of upgrade steps:

1. Upgrade Istio CNI
1. Restart any workloads enrolled into ambient mode
1. Upgrade Ztunnel

Failure to do so will result in DNS resolution failures.
If this occurs, you can restart the workloads to resolve the issue.

This is expected to be improved in future patch releases; follow [the issue](https://github.com/istio/ztunnel/issues/1360) for more information.

## Istio CRDs are templated by default and can be installed and upgraded via `helm install istio-base`

This changes how CRDs are upgraded.
Previously, we recommended and documented:

- Install: `helm install istio-base`
- Upgrade: `kubectl apply -f manifests/charts/base/files/crd-all.gen.yaml` or similar.
- Uninstall: `kubectl get crd -oname | grep --color=never 'istio.io' | xargs kubectl delete`

This change allows:

- Install: `helm install istio-base`
- Upgrade: `helm upgrade istio-base`
- Uninstall: `kubectl get crd -oname | grep --color=never 'istio.io' | xargs kubectl delete`

Previously this only worked under certain conditions, and when certain install flags were used,
could result in non-Helm-upgradable CRDs being generated that required manual intervention to fix.

With this change, out-of-band install and upgrade of Istio CRDs with the `kubectl` command when using Helm is **no longer required**.

If you do not use Helm to install, template, or manage Istio resources,
you can continue to do so and install CRDs manually with `kubectl apply -f manifests/charts/base/files/crd-all.gen.yaml`

If you previously installed CRDs with `helm install istio-base` OR `kubectl apply`, you can begin safely upgrading Istio CRDs
with only `helm upgrade istio-base` from this and all subsequent releases
after running the below kubectl commands as a one-time migration:

- `kubectl label $(kubectl get crds -l chart=istio -o name && kubectl get crds -l app.kubernetes.io/part-of=istio -o name) "app.kubernetes.io/managed-by=Helm"`
- `kubectl annotate $(kubectl get crds -l chart=istio -o name && kubectl get crds -l app.kubernetes.io/part-of=istio -o name) "meta.helm.sh/release-name=istio-base"` (replace with actual `istio-base` Helm release name)
- `kubectl annotate $(kubectl get crds -l chart=istio -o name && kubectl get crds -l app.kubernetes.io/part-of=istio -o name) "meta.helm.sh/release-namespace=istio-system"` (replace with actual istio namespace)

If desired, the legacy labels can be generated by setting `base.enableCRDTemplates=false` during `helm install base`, but this option will be removed in a future release.

## `istiod-remote` chart replaced with `remote` profile

Installing istio clusters with a remote/external control plane via Helm has never been officially documented or stable.
This changes how clusters that use a remote istio instance are installed, in preparation for documenting this.

The `istiod-remote` Helm chart has been merged with the regular `istio-discovery` Helm chart.

Previously:
- `helm install istiod-remote istio/istiod-remote`

With this change:
- `helm install helm install istiod istio/istiod --set profile=remote`

Note that, as per the above upgrade note, installing `istio-base` chart is now required in both local and remote clusters.

## `Sidecar` scoping changes

During processing of services, Istio has a variety of conflict resolution strategies.
Historically, these have subtly differed when a user has a `Sidecar` resource defined, compared to when they do not.
This applied even if the `Sidecar` resource with just `egress: "*/*"`, which should be the same as not having one defined.

In this version, the behavior between the two has been unified:

*Multiple services defined with the same hostname*
Behavior before, without `Sidecar`: prefer a Kubernetes `Service` (rather than a `ServiceEntry`), else pick an arbitrary one.
Behavior before, with `Sidecar`: prefer the Service in the same namespace as the proxy, else pick an arbitrary one.
New behavior: prefer the Service in the same namespace as the proxy, then the Kubernetes Service (not ServiceEntry), else pick an arbitrary one.

*Multiple Gateway API Route defined for the same service*
Behavior before, without `Sidecar`: prefer the local proxy namespace, to allow consumer overrides.
Behavior before, with `Sidecar`: arbitrary order.
New behavior: prefer the local proxy namespace, to allow consumer overrides.

The old behavior can be retained, temporarily, by setting `PILOT_UNIFIED_SIDECAR_SCOPE=false`.

## Standardization of the peer metadata attributes

CEL expressions in the telemetry API must use the standard [Envoy attributes](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/intro/arch_overview/advanced/attributes) instead of the custom Wasm extended attributes.

Peer metadata is now stored  in `filter_state.downstream_peer` and `filter_state.upstream_peer` instead  of `filter_state["wasm.downstream_peer"]` and`filter_state["wasm.upstream_peer"]`.
Node metadata is stored in `xds.node` instead of `node`.
Wasm attributes must be fully qualified, e.g. use `filter_state["wasm.istio_responseClass"]` instead of `istio_responseClass`.

Presence operator can be used for backwards compatible expressions in a mixed proxy scenario, e.g. `has(filter_state.downstream_peer) ? filter_state.downstream_peer.namespace : filter_state["wasm.downstream_peer"].namespace` to read the namespace of the peer.

The peer metadata uses baggage encoding with the following field attributes:

- `namespace`
- `cluster`
- `service`
- `revision`
- `app`
- `version`
- `workload`
- `type` (e.g. `"deployment"`)
- `name` (e.g. `"pod-foo-12345"`)

## Compatibility with cert-manager's `istio-csr`

In this release, Istio introduces increased validation checks in gRPC communication to the control plane.
Note this only impacts Istio's own internal gRPC usage, not users' traffic.

While Istio's control plane is not impacted by this, a popular third-party CA implementation, [`istio-csr`](https://github.com/cert-manager/istio-csr) is.
While this has been [fixed upstream](https://github.com/cert-manager/istio-csr/pull/422), there is not yet a released version with the fix at the time of writing (`v0.12.0` does not have the fix).

This can be worked around in the meantime by installing Istio with the following settings:

{{< text yaml >}}
meshConfig:
  defaultConfig:
    proxyMetadata:
      GRPC_ENFORCE_ALPN_ENABLED: "false"
{{< /text >}}

If you are impacted by this issue, you will see an error message like `"transport: authentication handshake failed: credentials: cannot check peer: missing selected ALPN property"`.
