---
title: Istio 0.8
weight: 93
---

In addition to the usual pile of bug fixes and performance improvements, this release includes the new or
updated features detailed below.

## Networking

- **Revamped Traffic Management Model**. We're finally ready to take the wraps off our
[new traffic management configuration model](/blog/2018/v1alpha3-routing/).
This model adds many new features and addresses usability issues
with the prior model. There is a conversion tool built into `istioctl` to help migrate your config from
the old model. [Try out the new traffic management model](/docs/tasks/traffic-management).

- **Gateway for Ingress/Egress**. We no longer support combining Kubernetes Ingress specs with Istio route rules,
as it has led to several bugs and reliability issues. Istio now supports a platform independent ingress/egress
[Gateway](/docs/concepts/traffic-management/rules-configuration/#gateways) that works across
Kubernetes and Cloud Foundry and integrates seamlessly with the routing rules.

- **The new Gateway supports [Server Name Indication](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Server_Name_Indication)** based routing,
as well as serving a certificate based on the SNI value. HTTPS access to external services will be auto configured based on SNI.

- **Envoy v2 APIs**. Users can choose to inject a sidecar using Envoy's v2 APIs. In this mode, Pilot uses [Envoy's v2 Aggregated Discovery Service
API](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/overview/v2_overview) to push configuration to the data plane.
This new approach increases scalability of the control plane.

- **Constrained Inbound Ports**. We now restrict the inbound ports in a pod to the ones declared by the apps running inside that pod.

## Security

- **Introducing Citadel**. We've finally given a name to our security component. What was
formerly known as Istio-Auth or Istio-CA is now called Citadel.

- **Multicluster Support**. We support per-cluster Citadel in multicluster deployments such that all Citadels share the same root cert
and workloads can authenticate each other across the mesh.

- **Authentication Policy**. We've introduced authentication policy that can be used to configure service-to-service
authentication (mutual TLS) and end user authentication. This is the recommended way for enabling mutual TLS
(over the existing config flag and service annotations). [Learn more](/docs/tasks/security/authn-policy/).

## Telemetry

- **Self-Reporting**. Mixer and Pilot now produce telemetry that flows through the normal
Istio telemetry pipeline, just like services in the mesh.

## Setup

- **A la Carte Istio**. Istio has a rich set of features, however you don't need to install or consume them all together. By using
Helm or `istioctl gen-deploy`, users can install only the features they want. For example, users can install Pilot only and enjoy traffic
management functionality without dealing with Mixer or Citadel.
Learn more about [customization through Helm](/docs/setup/kubernetes/helm-install/#customization-with-helm)
and about [`istioctl gen-deploy`](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl%20gen-deploy).

## Mixer adapters

- **CloudWatch**. Mixer can now report metrics to AWS CloudWatch.
[Learn more](/docs/reference/config/policy-and-telemetry/adapters/cloudwatch/)

## Known issues with 0.8

- A gateway with virtual services pointing to a headless service won't work ([Issue #5005](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/5005)).

- There are [problems with Kubernetes 1.10.2](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/5723).
The workaround is to use Kubernetes 1.9 or switch the node image to Ubuntu.

- There is a known namespace issue with `istioctl experimental convert-networking-config` tool where the desired namespace may be changed to the istio-system namespace, please manually adjust to use the desired namespace after running the conversation tool.   [Learn more](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/5817)
