content/docs/tasks/security/vault-ca/index.md, before:

---
title: Istio Vault CA Integration
description: Tutorial on how to plug in a Vault CA for issuing certificates in Istio.
weight: 10
keywords: [security,certificate]
---

This tutorial walks you through an example to plug in a Vault CA for issuing
certificates in Istio.

## Before you begin

* Create a new Kubernetes cluster to run the example in this tutorial.

## Install Istio with SDS enabled

1.  Install Istio with SDS enabled using [Helm](/docs/setup/kubernetes/install/helm/#prerequisites)
and Node Agent sending certificate signing
requests to a testing Vault CA:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create clusterrolebinding cluster-admin-binding --clusterrole=cluster-admin --user="$(gcloud config get-value core/account)"
    $ helm dep update --skip-refresh install/kubernetes/helm/istio
    $ cat install/kubernetes/namespace.yaml > istio-auth.yaml
    $ cat install/kubernetes/helm/istio-init/files/crd-* >> istio-auth.yaml
    $ helm template \
        --name=istio \
        --namespace=istio-system \
        --set global.proxy.excludeIPRanges="35.233.249.249/32" \
        --values install/kubernetes/helm/istio/example-values/values-istio-example-sds-vault.yaml \
        install/kubernetes/helm/istio >> istio-auth.yaml
    $ kubectl create -f istio-auth.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

The testing Vault server used in this tutorial has the IP
address `35.233.249.249`. The configuration
`global.proxy.excludeIPRanges="35.233.249.249/32"` whitelists the IP address of
the testing Vault server, so that Envoy will not intercept the traffic from
Node Agent to Vault.

The yaml file [`values-istio-example-sds-vault.yaml`]({{< github_file >}}/install/kubernetes/helm/istio/example-values/values-istio-example-sds-vault.yaml)
contains the configuration that enables SDS (secret discovery service) in Istio.
The Vault CA related configuration is set as environmental variables:

{{< text yaml >}}
env:
- name: CA_ADDR
  value: "https://35.233.249.249:8200"
- name: CA_PROVIDER
  value: "VaultCA"
- name: "VAULT_ADDR"
  value: "https://35.233.249.249:8200"
- name: "VAULT_AUTH_PATH"
  value: "auth/kubernetes/login"
- name: "VAULT_ROLE"
  value: "istio-cert"
- name: "VAULT_SIGN_CSR_PATH"
  value: "istio_ca/sign/istio-pki-role"
{{< /text >}}

## Deploy a testing workload

This section deploys a testing workload `httpbin`. When the sidecar of the
testing workload requests a certificate through SDS, Node Agent will send
certificate signing requests to Vault.

1.  Generate the deployment for an example `httpbin` backend:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ istioctl kube-inject -f @samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml@ > httpbin-injected.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Deploy the example backend:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f httpbin-injected.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1.  List Node Agent's pods:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get pod -n istio-system -l app=nodeagent -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name}
    {{< /text >}}

1.  View each Node Agent's logs. The Node Agent residing on
the same node as the testing workload will contain Vault related logs.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl logs -n istio-system THE-POD-NAME-FROM-PREVIOUS-COMMAND
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Because in this example, Vault is not configured to accept the Kubernetes JWT
service account from the `httpbin` workload, you should see that Vault rejects the
signing requests with the following logs:

    {{< text plain >}}
    2019-01-16T19:42:19.274291Z     info    SDS gRPC server start, listen "/var/run/sds/uds_path"
    2019-01-16T19:42:22.015814Z     error   failed to login Vault: Error making API request.
    URL: PUT https://35.233.249.249:8200/v1/auth/kubernetes/login
    Code: 500. Errors:
    * service account name not authorized
    2019-01-16T19:42:22.016112Z     error   Failed to sign cert for "default": failed to login Vault at https://35.233.249.249:8200: Error making API request.
    {{< /text >}}

1.  With the above logs generated, you have completed the tutorial in this
article, which plugs in an external Vault CA and routes the certificate signing
requests to Vault.

## Cleanup

After completing this tutorial, you may delete the testing cluster created
at the beginning of this tutorial.

Commit message:

Add a description of certificate request flow for Vault CA (#3811)

content/docs/tasks/security/vault-ca/index.md, after:

---
title: Istio Vault CA Integration
description: Tutorial on how to plug in a Vault CA for issuing certificates in Istio.
weight: 10
keywords: [security,certificate]
---

This tutorial walks you through an example to plug in a Vault CA for issuing
certificates in Istio.

## Before you begin

* Create a new Kubernetes cluster to run the example in this tutorial.

## Certificate request flow

At high level, an Istio proxy (i.e., Envoy) requests a certificate from Node Agent
through SDS. Node Agent sends a CSR (Certificate Signing Request), with the Kubernetes service
account token of the Istio proxy attached, to Vault CA. Vault CA authenticates and authorizes
the CSR based on the Kubernetes service account token and returns the signed certificate
to Node Agent, which returns the signed certificate to the Istio proxy.

You need to configure Vault CA to enable authentication and authorization of Kubernetes service accounts.
Please refer to [Vault Kubernetes auth method](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth/kubernetes.html)
for the configuration instructions.

## Install Istio with SDS enabled

1.  Install Istio with SDS enabled using [Helm](/docs/setup/kubernetes/install/helm/#prerequisites)
and Node Agent sending certificate signing
requests to a testing Vault CA:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create clusterrolebinding cluster-admin-binding --clusterrole=cluster-admin --user="$(gcloud config get-value core/account)"
    $ helm dep update --skip-refresh install/kubernetes/helm/istio
    $ cat install/kubernetes/namespace.yaml > istio-auth.yaml
    $ cat install/kubernetes/helm/istio-init/files/crd-* >> istio-auth.yaml
    $ helm template \
        --name=istio \
        --namespace=istio-system \
        --set global.proxy.excludeIPRanges="35.233.249.249/32" \
        --values install/kubernetes/helm/istio/example-values/values-istio-example-sds-vault.yaml \
        install/kubernetes/helm/istio >> istio-auth.yaml
    $ kubectl create -f istio-auth.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

The testing Vault server used in this tutorial has the IP
address `35.233.249.249`. The configuration
`global.proxy.excludeIPRanges="35.233.249.249/32"` whitelists the IP address of
the testing Vault server, so that Envoy will not intercept the traffic from
Node Agent to Vault.

The yaml file [`values-istio-example-sds-vault.yaml`]({{< github_file >}}/install/kubernetes/helm/istio/example-values/values-istio-example-sds-vault.yaml)
contains the configuration that enables SDS (secret discovery service) in Istio.
The Vault CA related configuration is set as environmental variables:

{{< text yaml >}}
env:
- name: CA_ADDR
  value: "https://35.233.249.249:8200"
- name: CA_PROVIDER
  value: "VaultCA"
- name: "VAULT_ADDR"
  value: "https://35.233.249.249:8200"
- name: "VAULT_AUTH_PATH"
  value: "auth/kubernetes/login"
- name: "VAULT_ROLE"
  value: "istio-cert"
- name: "VAULT_SIGN_CSR_PATH"
  value: "istio_ca/sign/istio-pki-role"
{{< /text >}}

## Deploy a testing workload

This section deploys a testing workload `httpbin`. When the sidecar of the
testing workload requests a certificate through SDS, Node Agent will send
certificate signing requests to Vault.

1.  Generate the deployment for an example `httpbin` backend:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ istioctl kube-inject -f @samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml@ > httpbin-injected.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Deploy the example backend:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f httpbin-injected.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1.  List Node Agent's pods:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get pod -n istio-system -l app=nodeagent -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name}
    {{< /text >}}

1.  View each Node Agent's logs. The Node Agent residing on
the same node as the testing workload will contain Vault related logs.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl logs -n istio-system THE-POD-NAME-FROM-PREVIOUS-COMMAND
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Because in this example, Vault is not configured to accept the Kubernetes JWT
service account from the `httpbin` workload, you should see that Vault rejects the
signing requests with the following logs:

    {{< text plain >}}
    2019-01-16T19:42:19.274291Z     info    SDS gRPC server start, listen "/var/run/sds/uds_path"
    2019-01-16T19:42:22.015814Z     error   failed to login Vault: Error making API request.
    URL: PUT https://35.233.249.249:8200/v1/auth/kubernetes/login
    Code: 500. Errors:
    * service account name not authorized
    2019-01-16T19:42:22.016112Z     error   Failed to sign cert for "default": failed to login Vault at https://35.233.249.249:8200: Error making API request.
    {{< /text >}}

1.  With the above logs generated, you have completed the tutorial in this
article, which plugs in an external Vault CA and routes the certificate signing
requests to Vault.

## Cleanup

After completing this tutorial, you may delete the testing cluster created
at the beginning of this tutorial.
